This study wouldn’t have been possible without the significant support from a number of people at various stages. We are very grateful to Caroline Cross, Caroline Knowles, Katie Cooper, Tim Watkins, Pete Castle, and Tim Mayo at the University of Reading for their valuable guidance and support during the design of this study and preparation of leaflets and posters. We would like to thank all the staff members in TCR Multispeciality Hospital and Toxiven Biotech for their enormous support during this project. We would like to extend our thanks to Sharada Balasubramanian, and her team (Kalai, Karthik and Sakthi) and Dr Saravanan and Dr Manoj for their immense support to prepare a video documentary about SBE. We are thankful to Viswa and Sagadevan from Urvanam Wildlife Trust for their exceptional support for arranging various activities in and around Madurai, distributing leaflets in various places and preparing short video documentaries. Our sincere thanks to all the media and social media who supported our campaign, specifically to Hameed from Puthiya Thalaimurai TV, Vinoth from The Federal, Soundar from Update News 360, Prashant from BBC Tamil and Veeramani from Puthiya Thalaimurai magazine. We thank Dr Malathi, Dr Chandrasekar, and Mr Hussain and all other friends, relatives and colleagues in various educational institutions in Tamil Nadu who provided their support at various levels during this campaign. We also would like to sincerely thank Dr David Williams from Global Snakebite Initiative, Dr Andreas Laustsen from Technical University of Denmark and Mr Ben Waldmann from Health Action International (who also provided their snakebite first aid poster to use in study questionnaire) for their guidance and support during this project, and Dr Wolfgang Wüster from University of Bangor for the use of his snake images. We extend our thanks to all the speakers of the SBE symposium. Finally, we would like to thank everyone else who directly or indirectly supported this project at many different stages.