Malaria during pregnancy is associated with adverse effects on the fetus and the newborn. As far as we know, no study has previously investigated in a single work, the link between Plasmodium vivax malaria in pregnancy and poor gestational outcomes, alteration of the newborn’s anthropometric profile, placental lesions, angiogenic and inflammatory factors, and humoral immunity against the parasite. For this purpose, we investigated the association between P. vivax malaria during pregnancy and newborn’s anthropometric profile, placental pathology, gestational outcomes, and the presence of IgG against P. vivax MSP119 that may confer protection against infection during pregnancy. We performed a large cohort study of malaria during pregnancy that analyzed data from mother-child pairs delivered between 2013 and 2015 in the Southwestern Brazilian Amazonian region. By evaluating data from 329 pregnancies, we found that P. vivax malaria during the first pregnancy trimester is significantly associated with the occurrence of preterm birth, low birth weight, and reduced newborn head circumference and body length. We also noted that P. vivax malaria in pregnancy promoted placental lesions and homeostasis imbalance, characterized by increased syncytial nuclear aggregates, fibrin deposition, and monocytes/leukocytes infiltrate, as well as imbalanced angiogenic factors, leptin, and cytokines. We observed that pregnant women with IgG against P. vivax MSP119 are not protected against poor pregnancy outcomes caused by P. vivax infections during pregnancy. Our observations improve our understanding of the disease and P. vivax burden during pregnancy, changing the current paradigm of the outcome of P. vivax malaria in pregnancy. That may represent a long-term severe consequence for the affected populations living in P. vivax-endemic regions. Our results also indicate that IgG against P. vivax MSP119 is not associated with protection from poor pregnancy outcomes, excluding this protein as a possible vaccination target that can prevent adverse outcomes caused by P. vivax infections during pregnancy.