Tsetse flies are responsible for transmission of trypanosomes that cause human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) and animal African Trypanosomiasis (AAT) in sub-Saharan Africa, and are thus of economic importance in the regions they inhabit. In Kenya and Tanzania, control of the main vector species, Glossina pallidipes, plays an important role in control of both HAT and AAT. Understanding the population structure of G. pallidipes is important in designing effective fly control strategies. In this study, we determined the spatial genetic structuring of G. pallidipes on a broad spatial scale with genotype data from 11 microsatellite loci and 21 sampling sites in Kenya and northern Tanzania. Results indicate a strong regional separation of tsetse fly populations into three major genetic clusters, with divergence east and west of the Great Rift Valley in central Kenya and between the Serengeti ecosystem and other western sites. Findings from ABC simulations suggest that the east/west divergence reflects the biogeographic break across the Great Rift Valley, and the northwest/southwest divergence reflects the biogeographic break between low elevation savannah and the Kenyan highlands, both biogeographic breaks previously observed in savannah animals with similar ranges. We found evidence of high genetic connectivity and migration rates within each of the three genetic clusters, and only occasional migration between clusters. These patterns of genetic connectivity and migration suggest that, following local eradication, the risk of reinvasion from within genetic clusters is very high even across vast geographic distances of more than 300 km, and that the risk of reinvasion from different genetic clusters is much lower, but still of concern. We argue that these findings call for tsetse control strategies that are coordinated for each genetic cluster, and monitoring schemes that are specifically designed to detect migration events across the geographic boundaries that demarcate genetic clusters. Although coordination of control within and monitoring between genetic clusters will be challenging because of the large spatial extent of the east genetic cluster and the international scale of the Serengeti ecosystem, we argue it is necessary to prevent reinvasions from both proximal and distant localities.