Chagas disease is still considered a neglected tropical disease (NTD). There are more than 5 million people infected worldwide of which 99% are located in the Americas. Chagas disease has huge social and economic consequences for countries with significant proportions of their populations living in poverty. Chagas disease causes approximately seven thousand deaths per year and half a million people live with disabilities caused by the disease. Based on disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), the disease burden of Chagas disease is five times greater than malaria and is approximately one-fifth of HIV/AIDS in the Latin American and Caribbean region. Despite being characterized over a century ago by Carlos Chagas who identified Trypanosoma cruzi as the causative agent, treatment of the disease is restricted to just two drugs (benznidazole and nifurtimox) that are effective only in the acute phase of the disease. Failure to rapidly diagnose T. cruzi infections and a poor side effect profile that causes many patients to abandon treatment both limit the effectiveness of treatment in the acute phase Chagas disease and many patients ultimately progress to the chronic phase. In this study, we have identified three compounds with anti-trypanosomal effects on the infective T. cruzi CL Brener form prevalent in various regions of the Americas, with potency in the 0.1 μM to 1 μM range and minimal cytotoxicity, even at 128 μM. Additionally, two of these compounds are significantly more potent against the parasite than against the recombinant form of the cysteine protease cruzipain which is generally considered to be a valid target for therapeutic intervention in the treatment of Chagas disease. These observations raise questions about the relevance of cruzain inhibition as a predictor of anti-trypanosomal activity and reinforce the case for using phenotypic assays in the search for new antichagasic agents. Correlation between enzyme inhibition and activity in cell-based assays is a general issue in drug discovery and we discuss the importance of intracellular unbound concentration in this context. We believe that this study is of significant interest both on account of the potent anti-trypanosomal activity observed for three of the compounds studied and the weak link between this activity and cruzain inhibition.