We describe a survey for post kala azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) and leprosy carried out in a surveillance site in Bihar, India, that has until recently been highly endemic for visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Both leprosy and VL are subject to elimination initiatives, for both diseases the target prevalence is set at less than 1 case per 10,000 population. PKDL, a dermatological sequel of VL, is important because it can act as a reservoir for VL in inter-epidemic periods. So far very little is known about prevalence of PKDL in India and the frequency of PKDL among former VL patients. Our survey was population based, allowing us to assess PKDL prevalence not only among former VL patients but also among those not known to have suffered from VL in the past. We conducted door-to-door screening and suspect cases of leprosy and PKDL were referred to a ‘skin camp’, an outreach consultation for skin conditions at village level. We recorded geographic coordinates of each household screened, thus we were able to explore spatial associations. Participation in the survey and in the skin camps was very good. On a population of over 25,000 screened we found only three PKDL cases but 44 active leprosy patients. For leprosy this equates to a prevalence of 17.1 per 10,000, way above the elimination threshold. Of our three PKDL cases, two had occurred in known former VL cases, one was in a person who reported never to have suffered from VL. For leprosy we found strong spatial associations with a six-fold increase in risk for household members but also a three to four-fold increase for neighbors at less than 25 meters. The three PKDL cases were from three different villages, their numbers were too low for any meaningful spatial analysis. We conclude that leprosy is still a major problem in the area that requires more efforts. Active screening of household contacts is rational but should be extended to nearby neighbors. Though relatively efficient, this approach would miss out on the bulk of leprosy patients. PKDL is a rare condition but needs to be kept under surveillance. Skin camps can provide a feasible alternative to door-to-door screening, allowing to target both conditions simultaneously.