We are deeply grateful for the invaluable help of the Procida Major Raimondo Ambrosino and the municipal counsellors Rossella Lauro and Titta Lubrano. We are very grateful to the Procida volounteers Davide Zeccolella, Luigi “Corecane” D’Orio, Cesare Buoninconti, Amedeo Schiano, Michele Meglio, Alberto Salvemini, Marilena Scotto D’Apollonia, Max Noviello, Anna and Antonio Amalfitano, Emanuela Coppola, Biagio and Isa Coppola, Angela and Pasquale Lubrano, Giulia and Angelo Salvemini, Claudia Riccio and Antonietta Pagano, who shared their time to support this project. We thank Franco e Maria Costagliola and Pina Cuccurullo for the hosting of many students and researchers in their houses during the years of the project. We thank Nella Scotto for the assistance during the surveys on the island. We greatly thank Proff. Luciano Gaudio and Serena Aceto for their encouragement and support during these years of study on the island. We thank the students at the University of Naples Federico II involved in this project: Brunella Bozzi, Angela Meccariello, Rita Colonna, Antonia Fiore, Claudia Ascione, Daniela Carannante and Antonio Marino. We thank all the Procida citizens and tourist accommodations (Hotel Riviera, Hotel La Torre, Hotel Savoia, Camping Punta Serra, Camping Vivara) that granted us access to their private properties for mosquito monitoring activities. We thank prof. Franz Iandolo, prof. Veronica Nasti and the students of the Naples Academy of Fine Arts, NTA (New Technologies of Art) for their support during the communication campaign in 2018. We thank Pasquale Raicaldo for his support in reporting on national newspaper about our project progresses on the Island. We thank the Comitato di Gestione Isola di Vivara for the authorization to access the reserve. We are deeply grateful to Rui Cardoso Pereira, Jeremy Bouyer, Kostas Bourtzis, Marc Vreysen and Jorge Hendrichs of the Joint FAO/IAEA Division of Nuclear Techniques in Food and Agriculture, Wien, Austria, for their help and support. We thank Jeremy Bouyer, Vincenza Colonna, Prof. Filiberto Cimino, Prof. Luciano Gaudio and Prof. Serena Aceto for their critical reading of the manuscript.