African trypanosomiasis (AT) is a disease caused by the single-celled protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei. In humans, AT causes neurological problems including sleep disturbances, which give the disease its colloquial name of “sleeping sickness”. Much of the focus of AT research has been on the neurological deficits, but other major organs are also affected, including the heart. Previous studies in humans and animals with AT have identified heart abnormalities such as contractile dysfunction, ventricular arrhythmias and significant cardiac tissue inflammation post-mortem. The need for studies investigating AT-induced cardiac dysfunction is critically important. There is a growing cardiovascular disease (CVD) burden in the population of Sub-Saharan Africa and CVD is now considered the leading cause of death in those aged over 45. AT-induced cardiac dysfunction has the potential to compound poor outcome in patients with pre-existing CVD and those being treated with existing AT medications due to their inherent adverse cardiac effects. As a consequence, new treatments for AT require evaluation in appropriate pre-clinical animal models to ensure that they do not detrimentally alter cardiac function. This study established two rat models of AT infection in which an electrocardiogram (ECG) was used to study cardiac electrical function. The first model utilised a commonly used laboratory strain, Trypanosoma brucei brucei Lister 427, whilst the second model used a laboratory strain that demonstrates a similar chronic infection profile to clinical cases, T. b. brucei TREU 927. The TREU 927 infection model showed a significantly increased frequency of cardiac arrhythmias in vivo. The arrhythmias observed in vivo in the TREU 927 infection model were lost upon isolation of the heart ex vivo, but returned with the addition of the β-adrenergic agonist—isoproterenol (ISO). These data suggest that AT alters the myocardium in such a way as to increase the propensity for ventricular arrhythmias when in the presence of a circulating factor or β-adrenergic stimulation (stress). Importantly, this animal model has sufficient sensitivity to measure changes in the frequency of AT-induced ventricular arrhythmias. Therefore the model is of value for studies aiming to develop new treatment strategies to specifically minimise AT-related cardiac dysfunction or to assess the presence of adverse cardiac electrical abnormalities when testing new trypanocidal-based AT treatments.