Melioidosis is a life-threatening infectious disease with a case fatality rate of 21% in Thailand. Furthermore, among patients who survive the acute disease, approximately 23% experience disease recurrence within one year. Despite the high efficacy of currently recommended mono-antibiotic therapies such as ceftazidime or meropenem, the mortality rate in patients with severe melioidosis remains high, ranging from 6%-37%. Thus, several drugs, such as granulocyte stimulating factor (G-CSF) and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX), have been added to antibiotic monotherapy to enhance its efficacy. However, the efficacy of combined treatments over monotherapies in decreasing mortality rates remains unclear. Additionally, several regimens are available for eradication therapy, which aim to prevent disease recurrence but their efficacy and potential risk of adverse drug events differ. Thus, we conducted a systematic review and network meta-analysis with the aims of comparing the hospital mortality among all available treatments for severe melioidosis, and identifying eradication therapies that effectively decrease disease recurrence, while also minimizing the risk of adverse drug events. Our findings suggest that ceftazidime plus G-CSF and ceftazidime plus TMP-SMX have lower mortality rates than other medications for treating severe melioidosis. However, this effect did not reach statistical significance. For eradication, TMP-SMX for 20 weeks was associated with a lower recurrence rate and a lower risk of adverse drug events when compared to other regimens. However, the validity of our analyses may be compromised due to the low number of included studies and dissimilarity in some factors among the included studies. These findings will be beneficial for clinicians in selecting the appropriate medications for treating severe melioidosis and preventing disease recurrence. In addition, this study suggests that additional well-designed clinical trials are necessary to improve the treatment of melioidosis.