Toxoplasma gondii is a cosmopolitan food and water-borne zoonotic protozoan parasite that able to infect almost all warm blooded vertebrates. It causes a considerable public health impact with higher burden in developing countries. Estimating pooled prevalence of Toxoplasma infection in high risk groups can draw health policy makers’ attention in planning a screening program and control needs. Several risk factors determine the circulation of Toxoplasma gondii between intermediate and final hosts. In this comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis, we intended to determine the prevalence and associated potential factors of Toxoplasma gondii infection in pregnant women and HIV infected individuals of Ethiopia. We searched English electronic databases (PubMed, Science Direct, African Journals Online, and Google Scholar) for studies. Our review resulted in a total of 24 papers meeting the inclusion criteria. The studies were performed from 2007 to 2019 using a cross-sectional study design and with overall samples of 6003 individuals (4356 pregnant women and 1647 HIV infected individuals). The estimated pooled seroprevalence of anti-Toxoplasma gondii antibodies using random-effect model was found to be 72.5% (95% CI: 58.7% - 83.1%) in pregnant women and 85.7% (95% CI: 76.3% - 91.8%) in HIV infected individuals. Risk factors: age, abortion history, contact with cats, cat ownership, having knowledge about toxoplasmosis, being a housewife and having unsafe water source were showed significant overall effect on Toxoplasma gondii infection rate in pregnant women. Age, cat ownership and raw meat consumption also showed significant overall effect on infection rate with Toxoplasma gondii in HIV infected individuals. The findings of this study are valuable to increase awareness among public health workers and educators regarding Toxoplasma gondii infection in high risk groups (pregnant women and HIV infected individuals) and risk factors that influence the occurrence of its infection. The findings also indicate a need for prenatal screening for early diagnosis and treatment.