Trachoma is an eye disease caused by an infection with Chlamydia trachomatis. It is the leading cause of blindness due to infection globally. However, trachoma is both treatable and preventable through antibiotics and surgery, and may be preventable with basic hygiene improvements. Thus, the Surgery, Antibiotics, Facial cleanliness and Environmental modification (SAFE) strategy is endorsed by the World Health Organization for the implementation of interventions. Trachoma is a progressive disease. Clinically active trachoma, the follicular (trachomatous-inflammation follicular (TF)) and intense (trachomatous- inflammation intense (TI)) phases are most common in children aged 1–9 years old while complications such as in turned lashes and loss of vision are found mainly in adults. Globally, the disease is earmarked for elimination as a public health problem by the year 2020. In Ghana, studies conducted in 2000–2003 identified trachoma as endemic in the Upper West and Northern regions and by 2004 the elimination strategy based on Surgery, Antibiotics treatment, Face washing and Environmental improvement, was being implemented in all 18 districts in the two regions. Surveys conducted in 2008 indicated that the strategy had been successful with reduction of clinically active trachoma to elimination levels in all 18 districts. Ghana implemented a post-elimination surveillance phase from 2011–2014 and conducted a formal prevalence survey in 2015–2016 using WHO standard grading methodologies, the results of which are presented here. The results showed that TF prevalence was below the 5% elimination target in children aged 1–9 years old in all 18 districts, while TT was below 2 cases in every 1000 persons aged 15 and above in all 18 endemic districts except one (Yendi district). Ghana has put in place a TT case search of all persons 15 years and above in the Yendi district to identify persons with the complications and offer surgery to them. The outcomes of these investigations will enable Ghana to provide evidence for WHO dossier submission, to acknowledge validation of elimination of trachoma as public health problem.