In Ghana, despite many years of efforts to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (LF) through mass drug administration (MDA), some districts still have a prevalence of infection above the threshold required to eliminate the disease as a public health problem. This is partly because not everyone in these districts is participating in the MDA programme. To tackle this challenge, new strategies called Engage & Treat (E&T) and Test & Treat (T&T) were implemented in a hotspot district. These strategies focus on reaching individuals who either miss or refuse MDA, ensuring that even those who rarely or never participate are covered. A financial cost study was undertaken to analyze the data from LF-MDA, E&T, and T&T implementations in 2021 to understand the financial implications for future LF-MDA efforts. The study looked at the cost data from LF-MDA activities conducted by the Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD) programme of the Ghana Health Service and the SENTINEL study in the Ahanta West district for the E&T and T&T interventions. Population data from the 2021 Ghana Population and Housing Census were used to estimate the LF-MDA-eligible population in the country. The study found that implementing these strategies, either through E&T or T&T, to improve coverage comes with an additional cost to the LF elimination goals. For example, in 2024, the projected cost per person treated by the routine LF-MDA alone is estimated at US$0.83. However, when combining LF-MDA with E&T or T&T, the costs increase to US$1.62, US$2.88, respectively, for the same year. Despite the higher costs, the combined LF-MDA and mop-up strategies are estimated to treat a larger population in 2024 (1,392,211) compared to the routine LF-MDA approach (988,470) for the same year. In summary, although the combined LF-MDA and mop-up strategies have higher costs, they may offer NTD Programmes the option to improve treatment coverage and achieve the LF elimination target sooner. This is particularly important as the routine LF-MDA alone approach has been in place for many years, with some districts still facing challenges in reaching elimination targets.