Mycobacterium leprae drug resistance is cause of surveillance due to the increase of leprosy relapsed cases. World Health Organization initiative for drug resistance surveillance in leprosy included Colombia, a country considered in post-elimination stage, as a sentinel country. During 10 years (2004–20013) an active search for M. leprae drug resistance was carried out in volunteer patients (each of whom signed a consent form) recruited from a convenience sample of patients diagnosed with leprosy in fourteen departments of Colombia: Amazonas, Antioquia, Atlántico, Bolívar, Caquetá, Cesar, Cundinamarca, Chocó, Huila, Magdalena, Norte de Santander, Santander, Tolima, and Valle. 243 multibacillary patients in various stages of multi drug therapy (MDT) were enrolled with the aim to search for primary and secondary M. leprae drug resistance: 33 new patients before treatment, 136 currently undergoing MDT with not clinical improvement of lesions after three months or more of MDT, 36 post-MDT with positive bacillary index (BI) persistence, 4 non-adherent to MDT, and 34 relapsed cases. M. leprae DNA from patient´s samples was tested to identify mutations in the drug resistance determining region (DRDR) in rpoB, folP1, gyrA, and gyrB, the genes responsible for rifampicin, dapsone and ofloxacin drug-resistance, respectively. We obtained isolates that exhibited mutations in the DRDR, three in rpoB gene, two in folP1 gene, and one isolate exhibited mutations in both rpoB and folP1, suggesting multidrug resistance. One isolate had a double mutation in folP1. Also, we detected mutations outside of DRDR that required in vivo test validation. 70% of M. leprae confirmed resistance mutations were isolated from relapsed patients (OR range 20.1–88.7, p < 0.05). Five of these relapsed patients received dapsone monotherapy as a primary treatment. The current study calls attention to M. leprae resistance in Colombia, especially the significant association between confirmed resistance mutations and relapsed in leprosy patients.