We thank the residents of Iquitos for their participation in this study. We greatly appreciate support of the Loreto Regional Health Department, including Drs. Hugo Rodriguez-Ferruci, Christian Carey, Carlos Alvarez, Hernan Silva, and Lic. Wilma Casanova Rojas, who all facilitated our work in Iquitos. Christopher Mores, Cecilia Gonzales, Kyle Peterson, Adam Armstrong, and Guillermo Pimentel, provided institutional support through NAMRU-6, and Maria Silva and Carolina Guevara supervised laboratory testing. A special thanks to Gloria Talledo for her ongoing support with the preparation of IRB protocols and reports for this project. We also thank Alan Lozano, Rebecca Carrion, and Geovana Hora for their help with development of the consent video. We also appreciate the careful commentary and advice provided by the NAMRU-6 IRB and Research Administration Program for the duration of this study, and especially that provided by Roxana Lescano, Zoe Moran, and Toane Zuleta. Regina Fernandez supervised field teams, which included Llerme Armas, Karina Chuquipiondo, Leny Curico, Rocio Del Rio, Junnelhy Flores, Juan Flores, Luz Angelica Galvez, Rina Gonzales, Maria Edith Juarez, Xiomara Mafaldo, Nora Marin, Nadia Montes, Johnni Mozombite, Sandra Munoz, Lucy Navarro, Geraldine Ocmin, Zenith Pezo, Iris Reategui, Sadith Jovita Ricopa, Liliana Rios, Rubiela Rubio, Ysabel Ruis, Rosana Sotero, Rosa Tamani, Zenith Tamani, and Sarita Del Pilar Tuesta, to identify acute dengue cases. We thank Gabriela Vasquez de la Torre for her administrative support for the project.

Copyright statement
Authors Robert D. Hontz and Eric S. Halsey were U.S. military service members at the time these studies were conducted. This work was prepared as part of their official duties. Title 17 U.S.C. § 105 provides that ‘Copyright protection under this title is not available for any work of the United States Government’. Title 17 U.S.C. § 101 defines a U.S. Government work as a work prepared by military service members or employees of the U.S. Government as part of those persons’ official duties.


Disclaimer
The views expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policies or positions of the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, nor the U.S. Government.