Snakebite envenomation is a public health issue in all sub-Saharan countries. Their management remains a challenge due to the high cost of antivenom and complex treatment-seeking behavior.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the tolerance and effectiveness of a commonly used antivenom in Cameroon, in 14 sites representative of the diversity of common epidemiological situations in sub-Saharan Africa. The treatment protocol was that recommended by the Cameroonian Ministry of Health. We reported in the present manuscript results on antivenom effectiveness.
Administration of IPA (at least two vials) was decided in all patients presenting with any symptoms of envenomation (cytotoxicity, bleeding, neurotoxicity) regardless of severity. Two to four vials of antivenom were administered to patients depending on whether they had coagulopathy or neurotoxic disorders, respectively. We repeated the administration of antivenom at the same dose to patients if hemorrhagic or neurotoxic signs persisted 2 hours after each injection.
During 20 months, we examined 477 patients and enrolled 447 (94%). Three hundred fifty-six patients presenting envenomation signs have received at least one dose of antivenom. Envenomation was diagnosed in 369 (83%) participants, out of which, 9 (3%) kept sequelae of varying severity, and 11 (3%) died, including one before the antivenom injection. Cytotoxic symptoms were observed in 336 (94.4%) participants, coagulation disorders in 234 (65.7%) participants and neurotoxic syndrome in 23 (6.5%) participants. A single antivenom administration was performed for 256 (71.9%) patients. Two hours after the first administration of antivenom, coagulation disorders and neurotoxicity decreased in 75.2% and 39.1% of patients, respectively. Complete stop bleedings and neurotoxicity occurred in 96% and 93% of patients within 24 hours, respectively.
We confirmed the good effectiveness of IPA and highlighted the rapid improvement in bleedings or neurotoxicity after its first administration.