In 2015, a Zika virus (ZIKV) epidemic emerged in Latin America, where dengue virus (DENV) already was endemic. The ZIKV epidemic revealed an array of birth defects and neurodevelopmental abnormalities in newborns associated with maternal infection. ZIKV may now be co-endemic in Latin America with DENV. Antibodies transferred from mother to the fetus in pregnancy can protect newborns from infections in early life, before they are eligible for vaccination. Conversely, flavivirus-specific IgG transfer could mediate enhancement of DENV infections in early life, or transfer ZIKV immune complexes into the fetal compartment. As a first step in evaluating these potential outcomes, it is important to understand whether ZIKV infection in pregnancy and its associated placental pathology impacts the magnitude or types of IgG subpopulations that are transferred across the placenta. To test this, we assessed paired maternal and cord blood collected at delivery from mothers who presented with rash and/or fever in pregnancy during the ZIKV epidemic in Vitoria, Brazil. Of these, we classified 8 as ZIKV-infected based on virus detection and/or neutralization serology, and 12 as ZIKV-uninfected. Comparing ZIKV-infected and uninfected groups, we detected no difference in transfer efficiency of IgG targeting ZIKV, DENV, or routine vaccine antigens. These findings indicate that the magnitude of IgG transferred across the placenta was not deficient at the time of birth in the setting of maternal ZIKV infection. Sustained transplacental IgG transfer with ZIKV infection during pregnancy indicates that ZIKV exposure in utero should not impact maternal antibody mediated protection during early life. However, concern remains over potential risk of severe primary DENV infection in ZIKV-exposed infants in endemic regions, or whether ZIKV could access the fetal compartment via antibody-mediated transport. This passive antibody transfer in pregnancy is an important consideration for flavivirus vaccine and therapeutic development efforts.