A considerable fraction of the human and animal population worldwide is affected by toxoplasmosis, which is caused by the common apicomplexan parasite T. gondii. Toxoplasmosis affects more than 30% of the world’s population, which is a serious public health hazard. There are several ways to catch the disease, including eating undercooked meat containing tissue cysts, consuming food or water that contaminated with mature oocytes, and congenitally by passing from a pregnant woman to her own fetus. Those who have undergone organ or blood transfusions from infected people may also contract it. In immunocompetent humans, toxoplasmosis typically results in minimal symptoms, while it can cause minor clinical signs such enlarged lymph nodes and flu-like symptoms. Toxoplasmosis can cause a wide range of symptoms of varying severity in people with a weakened immune system, such as cancer patients, people with HIV/AIDS, and people who have received organ transplants. If left untreated, these symptoms can include encephalitis, seizures, vision problems, poor coordination, and even death. Moreover, toxoplasmosis may result in miscarriage in women who contract the illness during pregnancy or neuropsychological symptoms in neonates who have the virus at birth, such as hydrocephalus, blindness, mental retardation, encephalitis, etc. Unfortunately, therapeutic options for toxoplasmosis are limited by the serious side effects of the drugs (including severe toxicity, protracted treatment, high cost, and potential parasite resistance). Consequently, it is crucial for researchers to discover new anti-Toxoplasma medications with targeted activity that could get rid of tissue cysts as well as tachyzoites. In the present study we used ZnO NPs prepared using ginger extract in treatment of T. gondii RH virulent strain in experimentally infected mice. The produced formula showed a good therapeutic potential in treatment of murine toxoplasmosis as demonstrated by prolonged survival rate, reduced parasite burden, improved T. gondii associated liver injury and histopathological alterations. Thus, we assume that the protective effect observed in the current research is attributed to the antioxidant capability of NPs. Our results indicated greenly produced ZnO NPs as a novel anti-Toxoplasma agent with high levels of safety in the treatment of the disease.