Traditionally, a key intervention in mosquito control is the use of insecticides against the adult stage. However, various factors limit the long-term use of these control methods, including the development of insecticide resistance, changes in mosquito biting behaviour, and concerns regarding potential negative impacts of insecticides on the environment. There is therefore a need for alternative management strategies, such as those that target aquatic life stages of mosquitoes. The objective of this study was to investigate the potential of biodegradable wax emulsions such as SPLAT for use in attracting gravid females and control of aquatic stages of culicine vectors. Culex mosquito oviposition pheromone (acetoxy hexadecanolide, AHD) was selected as an attractant, and Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis (Bti) and Bacillus sphaericus (Bs) were used as control agents. Buoyant 20 mg pellets, created by drying SPLAT dollops prior to application, were applied to water surfaces. Dose-mortality analyses of Cx. quinquefasciatus larvae demonstrated that one single pellet caused 100% mortality of first instar larvae for at least five weeks post application. Mortality of 3rd instar larvae remained equally high even at 10−2 dilutions for over two weeks post application. In addition, AHD was embedded in SPLAT to either attract gravid females (SPLATahd) or to first attract gravid females to oviposit and then to kill the resulting larval offspring (SPLATbacAHD, 10−1 dilution) in both laboratory and semi-field settings. The wax matrix containing AHD, with or without Bti and Bs, was strongly preferred as an oviposition substrate over controls for over two weeks post application. Both laboratory and semi-field experiments showed a marked increase in larval mortality effects when a semiochemical attractant and larvicides were combined, compared to matrices containing larvicides alone. These findings indicate the potential for using wax emulsions such as SPLAT as a slow release matrix for mosquito attractants and control agents; and that the combination could synergize the control of Cx. quinquefasciatus.