Visceral leishmaniasis is a neglected vector-borne disease, and one of the major public health problems of Bihar. The disease has been targeted for elimination by 2020. Bihar still posing challenge i.e. incidence is much high in a number of affected blocks, and even the disease is spreading in newer areas. None availability of an accurate data on the burden of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) and co-infections under the current surveillance system may emerge as a serious concern. Therefore, health facility-based sentinel site surveillance system has been attempted for the first time in Bihar for proper accounting of KA, PKDL and co-infection morbidity, mortality, diagnosis, case management, hotspot identification and monitoring the impact of elimination interventions. A system for capturing regional transmission is essential that can target focal areas of infection to monitor progress towards kala-azar elimination. Kala-azar sentinel site surveillance was established and activated in thirteen health facilities of Bihar during 2011 to 2014. The results showed a significant increase in PKDL and co-infection in 2014 when compared to 2011. Findings further revealed that utilization of laboratory services and case management were greatly improved, as majority of patients with KA, PKDL & co-infections were managed by the sentinel sites itself. The final cure rate of AmBisome was found excellent (100%). These observations may be useful to provide the basis for the design, refinement and resource allocation of the kala-azar control program. This system may also be useful in measuring impact of elimination interventions, their effectiveness and finally help in improving program management. It may further be used as an example for changing the practices of health care workers in Bihar and a lesson how to achieve high quality surveillance data in a resource limited setting. Standardization of sentinel site surveillance in terms of improved procedure, training, logistics, etc may further increase the effectiveness of this system. It may possibly be used as a cost-effective approach for capturing real-time kala-azar data under national kala-azar elimination programme.