Eastern equine encephalitis (EEE) is a highly pathogenic mosquito-borne virus responsible for outbreaks of severe disease in humans and equines, causing high mortality and neurological impairment in most survivors. In the past, human disease outbreaks in the northeastern U.S. occurred sporadically with no apparent pattern; however, during the last decade, this region has experienced changes in the frequency of EEE virus activity with expansion into new localities. We studied vector-host interaction using molecular methods in order to: 1) quantify vector host-feeding preferences of Culiseta melanura, 2) identify key bird species that serve as frequent hosts for Cs. melanura and reservoir hosts for the virus, and 3) determine the extent to which these preferences shape virus transmission dynamics in four historic foci of EEE virus activity in Connecticut. We also examined avian population density and dynamics to determine spatiotemporal host community composition experienced by Cs. melanura and EEE virus. We developed an empirically informed mathematical model to describe enzootic transmission of EEE virus in a community of multiple avian hosts and the primary mosquito vector. To our knowledge this is the first mathematical model for EEE virus, a pathogen with many potential hosts, in the northeastern U.S. Our study clarifies the host associations of Cs. melanura in four foci of virus activity in the northeastern U.S., identifies vector host preferences as the most important transmission parameter, and quantifies the contribution of preference-induced contact heterogeneity to enzootic transmission. Our study also elucidates spatiotemporal host species utilization by Cs. melanura in relation to avian host abundance. We identified eight bird species (Wood Thrush, American Robin, Tufted Titmouse, Common Grackle, Chipping Sparrow, Black-capped Chickadee, Northern Cardinal, and Warbling Vireo) with a larger feeding index than the remaining birds, indicating these species were fed upon by Cs. melanura more frequently, and therefore are important in maintenance of EEE virus at these four foci. This research provides a basis for better understanding the involvement of Cs. melanura in the transmission and ecology of EEE virus, and the risk of human infection in virus foci.