Podoconiosis is a neglected disease in the tropical regions of the world considered to be caused by prolonged contact of uncovered feet to irritant particles found in red clay soil from volcanic origins. The disease presents like filarial elephantiasis. Data from observational studies from Kenya are not available. We conducted a cross-sectional household survey to establish the prevalence and aspects related with Podoconiosis at the foot of Mount Longonot in the Great Rift Valley in Kenya. Podoconiosis was determined by combining results of clinical diagnosis, ruling out filarial elephantiasis in clinically positive Podoconiosis patients using molecular techniques and determining the concentration of elements and properties in the soil known to be associated with Podoconiosis. A structured questionnaire was used to identify possible risk factors. Out of 385 study participants, thirteen were clinically positive for Podoconiosis giving an overall prevalence of 3.4%. Molecular tests for filarial elephantiasis turned negative in the 13 participants. Factors that were associated with Podoconiosis prevalence were age, gender, education level, and frequency of washing legs, frequency of wearing shoes, soil pH and village. The concentration of soil minerals previously thought to be associated with Podoconiosis was found to be negatively associated with the Podoconiosis prevalence. However, the final analyses found frequency of wearing shoes, iron and aluminium as possible predictors of Podoconiosis occurrence in the study area. This is the first structured observational study to report occurrence of Podoconiosis in Kenya. Although some of our findings are inconsistent with some previous reports about the association of Podoconiosis and certain minerals in the soil, this study offers new beginnings for the cross-disciplinary research of Podoconiosis in fields known to influence occurrence of the disease including environmental health, socio-ecology and medical geographical approaches and predictions.