Schistosomiasis remains an extremely prevalent disease and a major public health problem in Tanzania despite years of disease control interventions like mass drug administration (MDA). While these interventions have expanded in scale and geographic coverage over the past 15 years, they still fail to reach millions of people who are estimated to need treatment with preventive chemotherapy (PC) drugs, resulting in severe morbidities and death secondary to schistosomiasis infection, and continued disease transmission. In its treatment guidelines, the World Health Organization (WHO) has advocated for national programs to move to a more targeted method of treatment to enable more effective and efficient use of limited resources. Problematically, decision makers in Tanzania don’t have disease prevalence data for much of the country that would allow them to plan for such targeted distribution of PC in Tanzania.
In 2024, KIT Royal Tropical Institute published a study on how disease prevalence estimates from geostatistical models can be used to fill these inhibitive data gaps and allow country programs to move to targeted treatment as advocated for in the WHO guidelines. With no clear precedent on how use of such models would be integrated into existing schistosomiasis control programs, this study sought to examine perceptions of challenges and incentives to programs associated with integrating these models into the planning process in Tanzania. Through interviews with key informants involved in the planning of schistosomiasis control in Tanzania, the study finds clear actionable barriers to integrating such models in existing systems, despite their perceived utility to support the planning of targeted interventions.
In this study, we explore challenges and motivating factors of using this model to better understand blockers inhibiting routine use of such models across highly endemic countries like Tanzania that are stagnating on elimination targets and unable to move to targeted interventions. By examining motivating factors, we further seek to understand what encourages programmatic uptake of models to facilitate their eventual integration into health systems in endemic areas.
We believe that results from this study should help to motivate the WHO to standardize recommendations around using geostatistical models, like the one presented in this study, which may serve as powerful tools to better plan interventions and reduce transmission of schistosomiasis. Such recommendations may, as this study found, have a large influence on country uptake of novel tools at country level, helping them to combat a devastating disease that affects so many millions of people across Sub-Saharan Africa and other parts of the world.