Lymphatic filariasis (LF) has been targeted for elimination by 2020 through a major global initiative. The elimination strategy mainly aims to interrupt the transmission, or spread of infection, through annual mass drug administration (MDA) to entire at-risk population except the pregnant women and children below two years of age. Nevertheless, evidence exists that maternal W bancrofti infection during pregnancy can increase the susceptibility of the offspring to such infection during early childhood, the precise mechanism of which is not clear. Therefore in this study we have made an attempt to elucidate the mechanism of alteration of the foetal immunity due to maternal filarial infection, which may help developing strategy to strengthen the elimination programme. It is known that regulatory T cells are responsible for development of hyporesponsiveness, a condition that supports parasite growth and maternal filarial infection influences the development of T-regulatory cells from infancy to early childhood. Since T-reg cell can induce the production of regulatory cytokine IL-10 that often implicated in induction of IgG4 and we have observed an increased level of IL-10 / IgG4 and decreased levels of IFN- γ/ IgG3 in cord blood of infected mothers, we have thought that the modulation that takes place in utero affects the immune response and eventually disease outcome in early childhood. In order to prove our hypothesis, we have followed up a cohort of 57 children born to infected and uninfected mother in a MDA ongoing area of Odisha, India, where we have found a high rate of acquisition of filarial infection by children born to infected mother. Moreover a significantly high as well as a positive correlation between IgG4 and IL-10 levels in children born to infected mother during early childhood indicates that IL-10 and IgG4 contribute to immune modulation that starts during the period of gestation and continues till the early childhood helping the filarial parasites to evade destruction by their host’s immune system. In contrast a high level of IFN-γ and IgG3 in infection free children irrespective of infection status of mother shows the protective mechanism against the parasite. Additionally the correlation between antibodies and cytokines indicates that susceptibility to filarial infection during early childhood is due to the in utero modulation of T and B responses. Our findings highlights that every effort should be made to advance implementation policies and continue the focus to use the currently available anti-filarial drugs to prevent filarial infection before pregnancy as well as early childhood to achieve the target on time.