Schistosomiasis is a waterborne NTD endemic to Uganda and many other countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Schistosomiasis is one of the prominent NTDs in Uganda, the others being trachoma, onchocerciasis, buruli ulcer, soil-transmitted helminths, and elephantiasis. In Uganda, schistosomiasis only ranks behind malaria among parasitic diseases as a cause of poor health. Schistosomiasis has several socio-economic drivers, which include poverty, limited economic opportunities, poor service delivery and negative socio-cultural and gender norms. Yet the conventional responses to it have often been biomedical, using PZQ MDA. This study applied intersectional gender analysis to study how gender relations intersected with other social stratifiers to shape women’s and men’s experience of exposure to and treatment of schistosomiasis. It established that traditional gender roles determined the activities men and women performed at home and in public, which in turn determined their exposure to schistosomiasis. Gender roles were also reported in the fishing industry, where men predominantly fished while women processed and sold fish. While men were considered to be the epicentre of infection, women were not any safer since their traditional gender roles of cooking and washing brought them in direct contact with infected water multiple times daily. Gender roles also determined access to prompt health care with men (and some women who worked) prioritising making money instead of treatment, while women who were charged with taking children to hospital had opportunity to be tested and treated in time. Apart from gender differences were other factors such as poverty and limited health care services which compounded gender inequality. For example, the insufficient supply of PZQ undermined women’s opportunities to access prompt health care, while long waiting time deterred men and working women from seeking health care. Meanwhile with poverty the community had no alternative means of survival except the River Nile, despite its being infested with schistosomiasis bearing vectors. The study concludes that gender has a significant role to play in understanding and responding to schistosomiasis and makes the several recommendations including: mainstreaming gender in schistosomiasis control strategies; prioritising NTDs elimination in health systems; less vertical programmes in preference of integrated health care services, including in schistosomiasis control; poverty eradication; and more research in intersectional gender analysis in NTDs.