We are grateful to the Egyptian Ministry of Health for their aid and in sand fly collections and the Multi National Force and Observers (MFO) military units for transportation in the Sinai Peninsula. Special gratitude goes to Ms. Maria Badra from U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit Number Three (NAMRU- 3), Cairo, Egypt, for her organizational skills and support of the work in Egypt. The study protocol was approved by the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit Number Three (NAMRU-3) Institutional Review Board IRB No. 193, DoD No, NAMRU3.2006.0011, in compliance with all applicable Federal regulations governing the protection of human subjects. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases or the National Institutes of Health of the U.S. Department of Defense. DFH is a retired military service member; HAH, SSEH, and EEDYF are past employees and MRO, IVCA, and SK are current employees of the U.S. Government. This work was prepared as part of our official duties. Title 17 U.S.C. §105 provides that 'Copyright protection under this title is not available for any work of the United States Government'. Title 17 U.S.C. §101 defines a U.S. Government work as a work prepared by a military service member or employee of the U.S. Government as part of that person’s official duties. The opinions and assertions expressed herein are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of the Uniformed Services University or the Department of Defense. This work was prepared by a military or civilian employee of the U.S. Government as part of the individual’s official duties and therefore is in the public domain and does not possess copyright protection. The authors thank Mariha Wadsworth, Jonathon Weyerbacher, and Theresa Lai for their help in the sequencing of the sand fly samples. The authors also thank Allison J. Egan for her help in creating the study site map in Fig 1.