The Gambia joined the international community in the fight against neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), in order to enable control and eventual elimination by year 2020. This goal is in line with Africa regional targets for NTDs control and elimination. This decision was the driving force for a tabletop analysis of the existing NTD situation in the country, culminating in the development of a comprehensive five-year NTD Master plan 2015–2020, and an Annual Work Plan 2016. The World Health Organisation regional office for Africa’s Regional Program Review Group (WHO/AFRO RPRG) supported this work by granting approval for the mapping of schistosomiasis (SCH) and soil-transmitted helminthiases (STHs) across the country in May 2015. In this publication, we describe the purpose of the survey, how the survey was conducted, and how data and specimens were collected, handled, analyzed and interpreted. We have discovered that schistosomiasis exists in twenty-four districts in the country. Most of these districts are located in the eastern half of the country in Upper and Central River Regions. This means that communities in the affected districts require treatment to reduce the burden of disease. Treatment for schistosomiasis is unlike soil-transmitted helminthiases because all districts with schistosomiasis are eligible for treatment irrespective of the level of prevalence and endemicity according to the guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO). In comparison to STH, mass drug administration is not required for low STH endemic communities where the prevalence was less than 20%. Instead such communities will benefit from case by case treatment STH. Mass treatment will be required in district where STH prevalence was at least moderate or 20% and above. Soil-transmitted helminthiases were found in twenty districts. However, it is important to highlight that only two of these districts, with prevalence of 22% and 55%, respectively were eligible for mass drug administration in accordance with WHO guidelines. The guidelines recommend that districts with a prevalence of soil-transmitted helminthiases of less than 20% do not require mass community treatment in order to achieve disease elimination.