Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are becoming increasingly available and are useful during outbreaks of infectious and vector-borne diseases. This study set out to answer two questions regarding the use of RDTs in community settings. First, how well could community members at two diverse sites–Iquitos, Peru and Phnom Penh, Cambodia–perform an RDT on themselves and willing family members with only written and/or video instructions, and with two tests of different complexity? Second, and only in Iquitos, if RDTs were made widely available at no cost to households, would residents choose to use one for a family member showing febrile symptoms? In Peru, 202 community members were provided written and/or video instructions and a test kit, and then were observed operating the RDT on themselves or family members in their own homes. In Cambodia, 45 Community Health Workers and 50 community members were provided only written instructions at a local health center and asked to carry out the test. In both locations, trained observers scored each of the 12–15 steps necessary to conduct the test on a 3-point scale (1 being lowest proficiency level, 3 being highest), for one of the two RDTs in this study. In Iquitos, >80% of residents were able to perform 11/12 steps and 7/15 steps for the two- and five-pathogen test, respectively. Competency in Phnom Penh never reached 80% for any of the 12 or 15 steps for either test, with the percentage of participants demonstrating high competency ranging from 26–76% and 23–72%, for the two- and five-pathogen tests, respectively. Finally, in Iquitos, RDTs were distributed to households with earlier confirmed cases of dengue or Zika virus: about half of all household members that developed fevers were self-tested or tested by another family member. This study is consistent with our earlier findings from focus group discussions suggesting that implementation of simple home-based rapid diagnostic devices, could be used in different settings, but further research is needed to determine the best type and level of instructions to do this.