Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease with an estimated morbidity of 2.54 million disability-adjusted life years (DALYS), ranking it third among the parasitic diseases after Malaria and Dengue fever (WHO, 2018). About a decade ago, the World Health Organization (WHO) and its partners committed to intensifying efforts at increasing coverage during annual mass chemotherapy programmes in affected countries. This has influenced the reduction of the estimated disease-associated morbidity from 4.5 million DALYs in 2002 (WHO, 2002) to the current rate. Despite these gains, there is still growing concern that the persistent and extensive use of Praziquantel (PZQ) (the only approved chemotherapeutic agent) in these campaigns may lead to the development of poorly-responding phenotypes of Schistosoma sp. Strategies therefore to mitigate such possibilities may prove very advantageous, while research efforts towards the development of an effective vaccine continues. There has been growing evidence in recent years that infection of inhabitants in endemic areas may be influenced not only by environmental, but also by genetic factors as well. Of particular interest in this regard, is the region in the human genome, 5q31-q33, which bears several genes associated with immune function. One such group within this region is the T-helper 2 (Th2) cluster of genes, which are responsible for the production interleukin-4 (IL-4), IL-5, and IL-13 during immune response. We focused on single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) occurring in the IL-13 promoter region, particularly IL13-1055C/T, IL13-591A/G, and IL13-1258A/G, where we observed interesting trends with regard to participants’ infection status in association with the polymorphisms they presented with. Also, we assessed their immune profiles after stratifying by age, and herein indicate trends which reflect observed age-associated trends between S. haematobium infection and the IL-13 polymorphisms. The outcomes presented indicate a need for further work which challenges the current ‘one size fits all’ strategy in mass chemotherapy programmes and advocates for participant-specific/sub-group tailored programmes. This is more likely to minimize the likelihood for the development of resistant Schistosoma strains to PZQ.