We thank Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, former Secretary and Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research, Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Govt. of India, for supporting this initiative and Dr Rashmi Arora, former Head and Scientist-G, Division of Epidemiology & Communicable Diseases ICMR New Delhi, for her support. We are thankful to Drs. P.K. Sen, former Director and Nupur Roy, Joint Director of National Vector Borne Disease Control Program for their support during the entire period of our study. We thank Dr. B.G. Prakash Kumar, Deputy Director, National Vector Borne Disease Control Program, Karnataka and Dr Divakar Malge, District Health Officer, Yadgiri for local support at the study site.
We thank Dr Yeramalli Subramanian of CliniOps, USA and Dr. Anand Eswariah, Vinayak Desai and Santosh Wale of Syngene International Ltd, Bengaluru, India, Dr. Ramakrishna Rao and Ms. Katiuscia O’Brian from Washington University in St. Louis for technical support for work with the electronic data capture system, for data monitoring and for training of project staff. Mr. Andrew Majewski from the Taskforce for Global Health in Decatur, Georgia, USA provided key administrative support. We also thank Dr. R L J De Britto, Dr. B. Nandha and Dr. A. Krishna Kumari of ICMR-Vector Control Research Centre for their support in community mobilization and morbidity management of chronic cases and Mr.Y. Srinivasamurthy of ICMR-Vector Control Research Centre for technical assistance. We thank the medical officers, nurses, technicians, field workers and data entry operators of this project for field work and data collection. We thank the medical officers and other PHC staff as well as ASHA workers and Anganwadi staff from study villages for assistance in field work and management of adverse events. We extend our thanks to community leaders (Mr. Sharanappa- Hatikkuni village, Mr. Parvath Reddy-Kandkur village, Mr. Sabayya- Gunjanur village, Mr. Gopal Reddy- Anpur village and Mr. Santosh-Nazrapur village) and volunteers for their involvement in IEC activities and motivation of villagers. Thanks, are also due to Julie Jacobson from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation USA, Dr. Bhupendra Tripathy, and Mr. Harish Iyer from the India Office of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for facilitating this study.
Thanks are also extended to Prof. N. K. Ganguly, former Director General of ICMR as the Chairperson of National Filariasis Steering Committee and its members for providing valuable suggestion while reviewing the work, and to Dr. S. Sandhiya, Assistant Professor, Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, who served as the Medical Monitor for this study. The members of the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) are also acknowledged for their valuable suggestions. We are indebted to the late Dr. V. Kumarasamy, former Director of ICMR- National Institute for Research on Tuberculosis, Chennai, who had a leading role in the early planning stages of this study.