Over the past decades, there has been a significant improvement in the understanding of immune responses against infection with pathogenic Leishmania spp. and the pathogenesis of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in the mouse models. Leishmania parasites infect macrophages that can be activated via two major pathways resulting in classical and alternative activated macrophages which metabolize L-arginine differentially. Classically activated macrophages upregulate the enzyme inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and alternatively activated macrophages upregulate the arginase (ARG). ARG hydrolyzes the conversion of its substrate (L-arginine) to L-ornithine and urea. L-ornithine is a key intermediate substrate for the biosynthesis of polyamines, which are crucial nutrients for cellular processes such as growth, differentiation and proliferation of host cells and Leishmania parasites. Leishmania parasites may partly activate ARGs and inactivate the NO production by the host cells and enhance parasite survival via depletion of the iNOS substrate (L-arginine) and reduce NO levels. In this study, we tested the activity of this enzyme in the promastigote forms of the pathogenic L. major and L. tropica, and non-pathogenic L. tarentolae in vitro and assessed the differences between the levels of ARG activity in THP1 cells infected with different Leishmania spp. Moreover, we investigated the relationship between excessive ARG activity and lesion development in susceptible BALB/c and resistant C57BL/6 mice infected with virulent L. major, L. tropica and non-virulent L. tarentolae parasites and its impact on parasite burden during the development of infection. Our results show that ARG is highly upregulated in all pathogenic promastigotes as compared to non-pathogenic L. tarentolae and had a negative correlation between production of ARG and NO. We showed that during the development of the infection in susceptible BALB/c and resistant C57BL/6 mice, ARG is induced in both strains of mice infected with pathogenic Leishmania but not in non-pathogenic counterparts. These results suggest that ARG activity of Leishmania is essential for parasite survival in vitro and in vivo that directly regulates its growth and replication inside the host cells; therefore, it can be used as a significant marker of disease severity in CL and possible tools for drug designing.