Phlebotomus orientalis is the predominant vector of visceral leishmaniasis (VL, kala azar) in Sudan and other countries of East Africa, where the disease causes high morbidity and mortality. This sylvatic sand fly species is abundant in wild habitats characterized by presence of black cotton soil and vegetation dominated by Balanites aegyptiaca and/or Acacia seyal trees. In villages, the vector bites people in the household yard and in nearby peri-domestic locations, exhibiting limited indoor resting behaviour. The marked exophagic and exophilic behaviours of P. orientalis represent a profound challenge for VL control by excluding indoor residual spraying of insecticides (IRS) and compromising the efficacy of insecticide-impregnated bednets (ITNs). In this study, we evaluated the entomological efficacy of residual pyrethroid applied outdoors to household boundary fences and the exterior walls of household huts (outdoor residual insecticide spraying, ODRS), to reduce the abundance of P. orientalis inside and outside houses. We also evaluated the entomological impact of a restricted outdoor residual insecticide spraying (RODRS), whereby insecticide was applied only to the boundary fence. The study was carried out in June 2016-June 2017 in Jebel-Algana and Umsalala villages, Gedarif state, eastern Sudan, which are highly endemic for VL. The results showed that a single ODRS application of 20mg a.i. /m2 2.8% deltamethrin provided average reductions of 83%-99% in outdoor and peridomestic P. orientalis sand fly numbers relative to unsprayed control clusters. RODRS reduced outdoor and peridomestic P. orientalis by 60%-88%. The average cost of ODRS and RODRS per household were $5.76 and $3.48, respectively. The costs of these community-based control measures were substantially lower than the costs of LLINs, which is the only evidence-based tool used to protect against VL in the area. Future studies should evaluate the impact of ODRS/RODRS transmission of VL incidence in endemic villages and in seasonal agricultural farms.