Many patients bitten by snakes in the Brazilian Amazon do not seek medical care since they live great distinces from health facilities and often do not have the financial resources to travel in search of assistance. In this situation of vulnerability, a wide variety of traditional methods, without proven efficacy, and some known to be harmful, are used by individuals. As a result, many cases of snakebites that are not treated in the official health network are consequently not reported to the epidemiological surveillance system, thus generating underreporting. Knowing the proportion of underreported cases and their hostspots is very important for planning interventions that will improve the coverage of the healthcare network and the logistics of delivery of antivenoms. In a pioneering way in Brazil, this study was carried out to estimate snakebite underreporting and analyze obstacles that prevent victims from obtaining healthcare in the communities located in 15 municipalities on the banks of the Solimões, Juruá and Purus Rivers, in the remote Western Brazilian Amazon. Cases of deaths due to snakebites were also investigated. A total of 172 participants who reported having suffered snakebites during their lifetime were interviewed, as well as the circumstances of 4 deaths. Most patients recalled using some traditional medicine in the form of self-care to treat snakebite. In total, there were 73 different treatment procedures, which were quite different between the different regions studied. Almost half of the participants did not seek medical advice, claiming as reason for that the prioritization for traditional treatments and the non-regognition of the situation as potentially severe. In the Juruá River communities, this frequency was around 70%. The preference of traditional medicine was also associated with the lack of access to healthcare. We believe that this situation will only be mitigated if the antivenoms are made available closer to snakebite victims, i.e., in riverside and rural health units.