Plasmodium vivax is an understudied malaria parasite compared to P. falciparum despite that it is the most common Plasmodium species outside of Africa. In the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), the increased proportion of P. vivax proves its resilience to conventional malaria control measures. Within the GMS malaria incidence is highly heterogeneous, typified by more intensive malaria transmission along international borders. Understanding the transmission between countries and tracking parasite introduction are therefore essential to eliminating malaria within this region. The China-Myanmar border (CMB) presents such an example wherein China has eliminated autochthonous malaria cases, while Myanmar has high malaria incidence. Malaria on the CMB is nearly entirely due to P. vivax, yet few studies investigated the genetics and evolution of the P. vivax populations in the area. Here we used whole-genome sequencing for a holistic analysis of P. vivax from the CMB and compared them to those from other sites of the GMS. Parasites on the CMB had a significantly higher proportion (75%) of monoclonal infection than parasites from other regions. Many of the CMB parasites showed significant genetic sharing that is consistent with the result of clonal expansion, consistent with the malaria outbreak occurring during the study period. While P. vivax parasites from the entire GMS were substantially mixed with no evidence of significant gene flow barriers, those from the CMB were more genetically distinct from other populations. Genome-wide scans for selection identified genes potentially under selection, and especially notable are genes associated with sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine resistance. Genes also under selection include those potentially encoding membrane channels and transporters, which were associated with drug resistance in P. falciparum. Moreover, this population genomic study also identified a set of 36 single nucleotide polymorphisms, which could serve as a barcode for differentiating parasites from various regions of the GMS, a task that is important for the final phase of regional malaria elimination.