Solomon Islands, an island nation in the Southwest Pacific that has seen dramatic reductions in malaria transmission over the past 20 years, is aiming for malaria elimination. There is an increasing recognition that a substantial reservoir of asymptomatic and often sub-microscopic Plasmodium spp. infections exists even in low transmission settings. However, the potential role for these infections in sustaining transmission and the difference in response of the two most common malaria parasites, P. vivax and P. falciparum, to intensified control remains unclear. In May-June 2012, we therefore performed a cross-sectional survey of 3501 residents of all ages of Ngella, a low transmission area in Central Islands Province, to assess the prevalence of P. vivax and P. falciparum infection, determine the proportion of sub-microscopic and afebrile infections and evaluate whether gametocytaemic, and thus potentially infectious, individuals are present. Our survey showed a marked epidemiological contrast between P. vivax and P. falciparum. Although prevalence varied significantly among different regions of Ngella, P. vivax remains firmly endemic, with high rates of sub-microscopic, afebrile and genetically diverse infections. The presence of gametocytes among both sub-microscopic and microscopy positive, asymptomatic infections indicates that these infections contribute significantly to sustaining P. vivax transmission. P. falciparum, on the other hand, appears to be more amenable to control interventions. Only five P. falciparum infected individuals were detected, and all were residents of the same village. These infections carried the same msp2 clone. This difference highlights the larger challenge of eliminating P. vivax compared to P. falciparum in areas where they are co-endemic. In particular, the challenge posed by the presence of a large reservoir of silent P. vivax infections will need to be addressed if control of this parasite is to be accelerated and elimination achieved.