We thank the residents of Iquitos for their support and participation in the study. We thank Sarah Jenkins, Wesley Campbell, Robert Hontz, project physicians (Crystyan Alls Neufert Siles Montoya, Ali Yalta, Isabel Bazan), laboratory personnel (Leslye Angulo, Guadalupe Flores, Maria Silva, Carolina Guevara), data management personnel (Gabriela Vasquez De La Torre, Magaly Ochoa Isuiza), and the nurse technicians involved in case capture (Llerme Armas Pisco, Cesar Augusto Banda Chavez, Linder Maria Canayo Zavaleta, Clara Chávez López, Karina Chuquipiondo Vasquez, Lauri Dacia Cuespan Camus, Leny Curico Manihuari, Nadia Rocio Del Rio Chavez, Salome Elespuru, Junnelhy Mireya Flores López, Juan Flores Michi, Luz Angelica Galvez, Huayllahua, Rina Gonzales Jaba, Deisy Irene Huiñapi Cambunugue, Maria Edith Juárez Baldera, Xiomara Mafaldo García, Nora Marín Romero, Nadia Tereshkova Montes Criollo, Johnni Mozombite Flores, Sandra Ivonne Moñoz Perez, Lucy Navarro Sánchez, Geraldine Ocmin Galán, Zenith María Pezo Villacorta, Fiona Stefani Pinedo Zevallos, Iris Reátegui Carrión, Zoila Martha Reategui Chota, Sadith Jovita Ricopa Manuyama, Liliana Rios López, Rubiela Nerza Rubio Briceño, Ysabel Ruiz Berger, Miranda Angela Rocio Soplin, Rosana Magaly Sotero Jiménez, Rosa Tamani Babilonia, Zenith Tamani Guerrero, Moises Tanchiva, Sarita Del Pilar Tuesta Dávila, Flora Vargas Ceras, Rita Gabriela Vasquez Orbe).

Copyright statement
Authors H.A.V., C.N.M., A.C.M., W.L.Q., and E.J.R.L. are or were federal/contracted employee of the United States government. This work was prepared as part of their official duties. Title 17 U.S.C. §105 provides that ‘Copyright protection under this title is not available for any work of the United States Government.’ Title 17 U.S.C. §101 defines a U.S. Government work as a work prepared by a military service member or employee of the U.S. Government as part of that person’s official duties.


Disclaimer
The views expressed in this article reflect the results of the research conducted by the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, the National Institutes of Health, or the United States Government.