Two species of mosquitoes, Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus, are important mosquito vectors that transmit yellow fever, dengue, chikungunya and Zika viruses. There are limited vaccine and antiviral options to treat these diseases, and so vector control (chemical or biological) is the main strategy for preventing virus transmission. Active mosquito surveillance employing a range of methods is critical for guiding control programs. The context where surveillance is undertaken includes assessing population dynamics in areas where Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus are established and transmitting viruses; delimiting their range during incursions; detecting importations at first ports of entry; or conducting broad-scale presence/absence surveillance in regions vulnerable to invasion. Effective surveillance is underpinned by accurate and rapid identification of collected specimens. Molecular methods can complement more traditional morphological identification in instances when sample numbers are large, specimens are damaged, when related species share overlapping morphology or when diagnostic features in early instar larvae are not developed. Laboratory-based DNA tests are available; however, these require sophisticated equipment and incur lag time for the sample to be shipped and tested, which results in critical delay to implement rapid intervention. In this work, we have developed simple rapid tests to detect Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus that can be performed at or near the field sites, require only a single reaction temperature, and which give a visual colour change when a positive sample is detected. The assays identified all life stages and body components (legs and wings) tested, as well as adult specimens that were held in traps under field conditions for two weeks. They also detected a single 1st instar larva in a sample of >1,000 non-target mosquitoes to expedite ovitrap processing and subsequent morphological identification. The assays should be a useful adjunct to laboratory testing or could be employed as standalone tests.