Moderate to severe thrombocytopenia is common in the febrile and/or critical phase of dengue virus infection. Platelets are important for preservation of vascular integrity, especially during inflammation, and low platelet counts may contribute to plasma leakage. Currently, no therapeutic intervention that targets the pathogenic pathway is available for DENV infection, including therapies to prevent or reduce thrombocytopenia or plasma leakage. Oseltamivir phosphate is widely used for prevention and treatment of influenza by inhibiting viral neuraminidase. However, oseltamivir may also inhibit human endogenous neuraminidase involved in sialic acid metabolism, and as such extend the lifespan of platelets. In the phase 2 TOTO trial (Treatment Of Thrombocytopenia with Oseltamivir in acute dengue virus infection: a randomized, placebo controlled, multicenter trial) we investigated the potential of oseltamivir phosphate to shorten the time to platelet recovery and reduce plasma leakage in patients with DENV infection. In this trial involving 70 adult thrombocytopenic patients, hospitalized with acute DENV infection, adjunctive therapy with oseltamivir phosphate did not shorten platelet recovery time compared with placebo. The trial also did not show an effect of adjunctive oseltamivir on plasma leakage parameters. The reasons that oseltamivir had no apparent effect on platelet counts, markers of plasma leakage and glycocalyx distortion in this study remain speculative, but may involve one or more of the following; first, dengue-associated thrombocytopenia and plasma leakage are both multifactorial in origin and targeting neuraminidase alone may be insufficient to impact these processes. Second, oseltamivir phosphate was designed to inhibit viral neuraminidase, and data of its inhibitory actions on human neuraminidases are inconclusive. The finding in this study also suggest that while laboratory works may lead to hypotheses for novel treatment, proof of concept studies are essential to test them in a clinical setting.