We thank Brandon Hollingsworth, Jaye Sudweeks, Sumit Dhole, and Jennifer Baltzegar for helpful discussion. We are grateful to the Ministerio de Agricultura y Riego de Perú, Dirección General Forestal y de Fauna Silvestre for permission to conduct these studies under the auspices of Resolución Directoral No. 0406-2013-MINAGRI-DGFFS/DGEFFS. We thank the residents of Iquitos, Peru for allowing us to undertake this study in and around their homes. We greatly appreciate support of the Loreto Regional Health Department including Dra. Wilma Casanova and Cristiam Carey, who all facilitated our work in Iquitos. Gerson Perez Rodriguez supervised the collection and processing of mosquitoes. Entomological surveys were carried out by Jhon Bardales Cardenas, Cesar Campos Cardenas, Jimmy Maykol Castillo Pizango,Willy Chavez, Fernando Chota Ruiz, Guillermo Elespuru Hidalgo, Victor Elespuru Hidalgo, Fernando Espinoza Benavides, Rusbel Huinapi Tamani, Guillermo Inapi Huaman, Nestor Jose Nonato Lancha, Federico Reategui Viena, Edson Pilco Mermao, Angel Puertas Lozano, Juan Luiz Sifuentes Rios, Manuel Ruiz Rioja, and Abner Enrique Varzallo Lachi. Jimmy Roberto Espinoza Benavides carried out data entry. We thank Gabriela Vasquez de la Torre, Lorena Quiroz, Alfonso Vizcarra, Esther Jennifer Rios, and Jhonny Cordova Lopez, for their support in community engagement, project execution and monitoring of MoH space sprays. Drs. Robert Hontz, Christopher Mores, Frederick Stell, Craig Stoops, Diego Munoz, Cecilia Gonzales, Kyle Peterson, Adam Armstrong, Guillermo Pimentel, Zoe Moran, Toane Zuleta and Ms. Roxana Lescano of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 6 in Lima, Peru were instrumental in facilitating these studies.

Disclaimer
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, nor the U.S. Government.


Copyright statement
Some authors of this manuscript are military service members and employees of the U.S. Government. This work was prepared as part of their official duties. Title 17 U.S.C. §105 provides that “Copyright protection under this Title is not available for any work of the United States Government”. Title 17 U.S.C. §101 defines a U.S. Government work as a work prepared by a military service member or employee of the U.S. Government as part of that person’s official duties.