Despite improvements in tuberculosis (TB) treatment protocols, multi-drug-resistant and rifampicin-resistant (MDR/RR)-TB outcomes remain suboptimal. Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM), environmental organisms opportunistically capable of causing lung disease in susceptible individuals, are increasingly identified from sputum specimens in regions with high TB prevalence. Yet, their clinical impact on MDR/RR-TB outcomes is not well understood. Pulmonary NTM disease often presents with symptoms similar to pulmonary TB, complicating diagnosis and potentially leading to treatment modifications that may not always be warranted.
In Ghana, where MDR/RR-TB cases are on the rise, standardised short-course injectable (SCI) and all-oral bedaquiline-based (SCO) treatment regimens have been in place. However, there is no data on how the presence of NTM may influence MDR/RR-TB treatment response, particularly within different geographic and environmental contexts. There have, however, been reports of NTM emergence in people undergoing treatment for MDR/RR-TB using a bedaquiline-containing regimen in China. We present this gap in the management of MDR/RR-TB, noting the clinical implications of NTM isolation during the course of TB treatment is not well-defined. This study sought to fill existing knowledge gaps by identifying predictors of NTM isolation in sputum samples from patients undergoing treatment for MDR/RR-TB using either the SCO or SCI. Additionally, we evaluated whether the presence of NTM was associated with unfavourable TB treatment outcomes. Our findings indicate geographic differences in the occurrence of NTM among the study cohort. Also, persons living with HIV were more likely to experience unfavourable TB treatment outcomes. The presence of NTM did not affect the MDR/RR-TB treatment outcomes, regardless of the regimen used in our study. Our findings suggest that routine detection of NTM in MDR/RR-TB patients may not necessitate treatment changes. However, the detection of NTM shows the need for further investigation into how regional characteristics may influence NTM coinfection and potentially NTM pulmonary disease. Addressing this challenge is essential for guiding treatment decisions in resource-limited settings.