Giardia duodenalis is a globally distributed enteric parasite, and the most detected intestinal protozoan in children. Infection by this pathogen can evolve from asymptomatic to chronic disease with a range of gastrointestinal manifestations including diarrhoea. In endemic areas, early infection in childhood can contribute to impaired growth and cognitive function. This organism is currently divided in 8 distinct (A-H) genetic groups (assemblages) with marked differences in host range and specificity and even geographical distribution. Therefore, molecular studies aiming at investigating the genetic diversity of the parasite are cornerstone to assess its transmission dynamics. By using targeted-molecular genotyping methods based on PCR and sequencing, we demonstrated here that i) the occurrence of diarrhoea in Mozambican young children infected with G. duodenalis was not linked to a given assemblage of the parasite, ii) assemblage B was the most prevalent genetic variant of G. duodenalis circulating in the surveyed paediatric population, being responsible for 90% of the infections, and iii) G. duodenalis assemblage B was characterised by an extremely high genetic diversity impairing the correct allocation of isolates to sub-assemblages BIII or BIV, a fact that may be due to elevated coinfection rates or the occurrence of genetic recombination. This study represents the largest and most comprehensive molecular investigation evaluating the genetic diversity of G. duodenalis in young children with and without diarrhoea conducted in Mozambique to date. In conjunction with previous risk assessment analyses carried out in the country, the data presented here highlights the need of additional population genetic and epidemiological studies to characterise the epidemiology and transmission dynamics of G. duodenalis in Mozambique. Of particular interest would be the investigation of the parasite in environmental water samples and in domestic animal species susceptible of acting as suitable reservoirs of human infections.