Opisthorchis viverrini is a food-borne helminth infection that drives a strong inflammatory response in the bile duct that can result in bile duct fibrosis and bile duct cancer (intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma). Extensive research shows that oxidative stress (OS) plays a critical role in chronic O. viverrini infection transitioning to cancer in the bile duct. OS also results in a modified DNA lesion, referred to as 8-oxodG, excreted in the urine, where it can be detected by an antibody-based test. We measured the concentrations of 8-oxodG in the urine of O. viverrini-infected individuals who had developed bile duct fibrosis or bile duct cancer and compared levels of this metabolite in urine to O. viverrini infected individuals who did not have bile duct fibrosis or cancer in Northeastern Thailand. We determined bile duct fibrosis by ultrasonography and bile duct cancer by immunohistochemistry on resected liver tissue. We then built a statistical model to quantify how well urinary 8-oxodG predicted bile duct fibrosis and bile duct cancer in O. viverrini-infected individuals. We found that individuals with elevated levels of 8-oxodG in urine had a greater probability of developing bile duct fibrosis or bile duct cancer from O. viverrini infection. This association occurred in a strongly dose-dependent manner: in other words, the O. viverrini-infected individuals who had the highest concentration of urinary 8-oxodG also had the highest risk of presenting with bile duct fibrosis or bile duct cancer. In summary, measuring levels of 8-oxodG in the urine offers a unique opportunity to develop a candidate biomarker for advanced O. viverrini induced hepatobiliary pathologies such as fibrosis and cancer. The findings also confirm our previous observations that severe liver pathology occurs early and asymptomatically in residents of O. viverrini endemic regions, where individuals are infected for years (often decades) with this food-borne neglected tropical diseases (NTD) pathogen.