Taenia solium is a pork-bone zoonotic parasite. Humans acquire taeniasis from consumption of raw/undercooked pork contaminated with T. solium cysticerci. Pigs and humans acquire cysticercosis following consumption of food contaminated with eggs shed from the feces of humans with T. solium taeniasis. In Vietnam, the geographic distribution of T. solium varies throughout the country with hotspots or foci of infection in communities in the North and a more sporadic distribution in the Central Highlands and the South. While information on the distribution at the regional and provincial level is available, there is no available information on the spatial distribution of T. solium at fine spatial scales and factors influencing its distribution at fine spatial scales have not been described in detail. In this cross-sectional study, we collected information on the geographic coordinates of study households and utilized spatial analytical techniques to quantify both the fine scale spatial pattern of exposure to T. solium as well as the tendency for T. solium exposure-positive households to be located close to other T. solium exposure-positive households (spatial autocorrelation) in three districts in Dak Lak province. We found that in some of the study villages T. solium exposure-positive households were more likely to be surrounded by other T. solium exposure-positive households. Human exposure-positive households were found to be aggregated within a distance of 200 to 300 m in villages in Krong Nang district; whilst spatial aggregation of pig exposure-positive households was found up to distances of 1500 m in villages in M’Drak district. Although households that had either T. solium exposure- or taeniasis-positive cases were aggregated, we were unable to quantify their spatial association due to the extremely low number of T. solium taeniasis-positive households. This study shows that in the Central Highlands of Vietnam, T. solium exposure tend to cluster within foci. This information can be used to inform community intervention programs to lower its incidence in both humans and pigs.