The authors would like to acknowledge the solid support from the regional public health authorities in Peloponnese and from the Mayor of Evrotas, Mr. John Gripiotis. Furthermore, we would like to thank all the personnel of HCDCP and of Médecins Sans Frontières who participated in the malaria surveillance and control activities, as well as the Director of the Public Health Laboratories Network, Mrs. Eleonora Hadjipaschali. We would like to express our gratitude to Hervé Zeller, Wim Van Bortel and Annick Lenglet from the ECDC, and to Rossitza Mintcheva, Mikhail Ejov, Elkhan Gasimov and Aafje Rietveld from the WHO for their guidance and support. We would like to sincerely thank the Hellenic Ministry of Health and the Special Service for the Sector of Health and Social Solidarity for supporting the MALWEST project and its goals. We would like to express our gratitude to the Working Group of Vector-Borne Diseases of HCDCP: Theodoros Papadimitriou, Nikolaos Vakalis, Georgia Nikolopoulou, Georgios Saroglou, Asimina Balaska, Athanasios Zounos, Antonis Vasilogiannakopoulos, Ioannis Tselentis, Georgios Daikos, Apostolos Veizis and Georgios Panos.
Finally, we acknowledge the collaborating partners of the MALWEST project: Nikolaos Vakalis (Department of Parasitology, Entomology and Tropical Diseases, National School of Public Health); John Vontas (Biotechnology and Applied Biology, Laboratory Molecular Entomology, Department of Biology, University of Crete); Anna Papa (National Reference Center for Arboviruses, Department of Microbiology, School of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki); Charalambos Billinis (Laboratory of Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Thessaly); Chrysostomos I. Dovas (Laboratory of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, School of Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki); Dimitris Tontis (Laboratory of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Thessaly); Ioannis Tselentis and Anna Psaroulaki (Regional Laboratory of Public Health of Crete; Medical School, University of Crete) and Yorgos N. Photis (Laboratory of Spatial Analysis, GIS and Thematic Cartography, Department of Planning and Regional Development, School of Engineering, University of Thessaly).