This study required a lot of detailed work and follow up, helping study participants with triggers that would remind them of specific locations visited, and the arduous task of finding locations and geocoding each. It would have been impossible to do without the careful work of the NAMRU-6 movement and entomology teams. The movement team consisted of Wendy Lorena Quiroz Flores, Esther Jennifer Rios Lopez, Shirly M. Guedez Gonzales, and Wilder Carrasco Huaman. The entomology team consisted of Jimmy Castillo Pizango, Fernando Chota Ruiz, Victor Elespuru Hidalgo, Jose Espinoza Benavides, Rusbel Huiñapi Tamani, Guillermo Iñapi Huaman, Nestor Nonato Lancha, Edson Pilco Mermao, Angel Puertas Lozano, Federico Reategui Viena, Manuel Ruiz Rioja, Juan Luis Sifuentes Rios, and Abner Varzallo Lachi, under the supervision of Gerson Perez Rodriguez. The unit that handled downloading GPS data and ensuring they were functioning well included Rommel Vasquez Alves and Jimmy Roberto Espinoza Benavides. Jhon Elvis Ramirez Paredes assisted with the entry of data into the GIS system, following up with any inconsistencies and problems we encountered. Parisa Nourani, Emory student, assisted with overlapping GPS and SSI data into GIS for quick comparison and follow up by field team. Gabriela Vazquez La Torre also assisted in diverse logistical functions related to this work over the past years. Finally, we would like to thank the residents of Iquitos for their support and participation in this study. This study counted with the approval of the Loreto Regional Health Department.
Copyright Statement
Authors Eric S. Halsey and Tadeusz Kochel are U.S. military service members. This work was prepared as part of their official duties. Title 17 U.S.C. § 105 provides that ‚Copyright protection under this title is not available for any work of the United States Government’. Title 17 U.S.C. § 101 defines a U.S. Government work as a work prepared by a military service members or employees of the U.S. Government as part of those persons’ official duties.
Disclaimer
The views expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, nor the U.S. Government.