Plasmodium vivax is the most geographically widespread parasite species that causes malaria in humans. Although it occurs in Africa as a member of a mix of Plasmodium species, P. vivax is dominant in other parts of the world outside of Africa (e.g., Brazil). It was previously thought that most African populations were immune to P. vivax infections due to the absence of Duffy antigen chemokine receptor (DARC) gene expression required for erythrocyte invasion. However, several recent reports have indicated the emergence and potential spread of P. vivax across human populations in Africa. Compared to Southeast Asia and South America where P. vivax is highly endemic, data on polymorphisms in erythrocyte binding gene candidates of P. vivax from Africa is limited. Filling this knowlege gap is critical for identifying functional genes in erythrocyte invasion, biomarkers for tracking the P. vivax isolates from Africa, as well as potential gene targets for vaccine development. This paper examined the level of genetic polymorphisms in a panel of 43 potential erythrocyte binding protein genes based on whole genome sequences and described transmission patterns of P. vivax infections from different study sites in Ethiopia based on the genetic variants. Our analyses showed that chromosomes 9 and 10 of the P. vivax genomes isolated in Ethiopia had the most high-quality genetic polymorphisms. Among all erythrocyte binding protein gene candidates, the merozoite surface proteins 1 and merozoite surface protein 3 showed high levels of polymorphism. MAEBL and MSP3.8 related to immunogenicity and erythrocyte binding function were detected with significant signals of positive selection. The expansion of the Duffy binding protein and merozoite surface protein 3 gene copies was an independent process among the P. vivax lineages in Ethiopia. Various levels of gene flow were observed even at a smaller geographical scale. Our study provided baseline data for future comparison with P. vivax in Duffy negative individuals and help develop a panel of genetic markers that are informative at a micro-geographical scale.