We thank the residents of Iquitos, Peru for allowing us to undertake this study in and around their homes. We greatly appreciate support of the Loreto Regional Health Department including Drs. Carmen Montelvan and Carlos Vidal, who all facilitated our work in Iquitos. Gerson Perez Rodriguez supervised the collection and processing of mosquitoes. Serological surveys were carried out by Dr. Giovanna Pastor, Delores Rimarachin, Gerson Guedes, Orfelinda Morales Tejada, Junnelhy Mireya Flores Lopez, Moises Tanchiva Tuanama, Rosan Magaly Sotero Jimenez, Miriam Angelica Ojaicuro Pashanaste, Xiomara Mafaldo Garcia, Sarita Del Pilar Tuesta Davila, Joel Cahuachi Tuesta, Maria Juana Martinez Salas, Zenith Pezo Villacorta, and Sandra Ivonne Munoz Perez. Laboratory support was provided by Wieslawa Guivanni Alava Torres, Guadalupe Flores Ancajima, and Leslie Leonor Angulo Melendez in Iquitos, and Carolina Guevara, Alfredo Huaman, Angelica Espinoza, and Roger Castillo in Lima. Entomological surveys were carried out by Jimmy Maykol Castillo Pizango, Rusbel Inapi Tamani, Juan Luiz Sifuentes Rios, Nestor Jose Nonato Lancha, Federico Reategui Viena, Victor Elespuru Hidalgo, Edson Pilco Mermao, Abner Enrique Varzallo Lachi, Fernando Chota Ruiz, Angel Puertas Lozano, Guillermo Inapi Huaman, Fernando Espinoza Benevides, and Manuel Ruiz Rioja. Jimmy Roberto Espinoza Benevides, Alan Lozano, and Jose Elespuro Bastos carried out data entry and verification. Karin Susy Escobedo Vargas, Carlos Tong, Johnny Dario Ramirez Fernandez, Miguel Antonio Vasquez Vargas, and Geidin Chavez Lopez carried out CDC trap collections and aided with taxonomic identifications. Edwin Chistama Pina and Marcial Hidalgo provided transportation support. Drs. Greg Martin, Gregor Devine (also of Rothamsted Research, UK), David Florin, and Ms. Roxana Lescano of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Center in Lima, Peru, were instrumental in facilitating these studies.
Human Use Statement: Study protocols were approved by the Naval Medical Research Center Institutional Review Boards in compliance with all Federal regulations governing the protection of human subjects.
Disclaimer: The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, nor the U.S. Government.
Authors Amy C. Morrison, Helvio Astete, Victor Lopez, Claudio Rocha, Rebecca Carrion, Joel M. Montgomery, and Tadeusz J. Kochel are military service members (or employees of the U.S. Government). This work was prepared as part of their official duties. Title 17 U.S.C. § 105 provides that ‘Copyright protection under this title is not available for any work of the United States Government’. Title 17 U.S.C. § 101 defines a U.S. Government work as a work prepared by a military service members or employees of the U.S. Government as part of those person's official duties.