Animal African Trypanosomosis is a tropical disease that is of economic importance in Sub-Saharan Africa. The livestock sub-sector supports approximately 600 million smallholders in developing countries through employment, income from livestock products, and improving crop productivity through draft power and manure. Efforts to reduce rural poverty and improve food security and nutrition, therefore, require utilizing livestock to their full potential. Trypanosomosis results in anemia, emaciation, productivity loss, and mortality, and remains a leading constraint to livestock development in Africa. To reduce the risks associated with the use of trypanocides, alternative control measures that target the vector- tsetse fly need to be developed and widely disseminated. The International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (icipe) and partners have—developed and implemented a novel tsetse repellent collar that shields animals from getting into contact with the vector, thereby preventing trypanosomosis transmission. The collar has now advanced to a commercialization stage. We conducted community and household-level surveys to assess farmer’s knowledge, perception, and practices regarding tsetse pest and trypanosomosis, and their willingness to pay for the novel tsetse repellent collar. We found that the pest is the main cattle production constraint and the cause of the associated disease, although there exists a gap in the identification of the clinical signs of the disease. Besides, most farmers rely on trypanocidal drugs for the treatment of their animals despite their human health and environmental risks. However, the majority were willing to buy the newly developed canvas collar. A male head of a household with a higher level of education is likely to pay more for the novel tsetse repellent collar. Besides, perception of high prevalence and severity of AAT is likely to increase the willingness to pay for the herd-level technology. The findings emphasize the need for wider dissemination and commercialization of the tsetse repellent collar technology to reduce trypanosomosis transmission and hence enhance food security and farm incomes in the affected regions in Africa.