Congenital TORCH (T. gondii, RV, CMV, and HSV) infections are associated with a variety of adverse prenatal and neonatal events, including miscarriage, malformations, and developmental abnormalities. Congenital TORCH infections remain an issue that cannot be neglected in China. However, the current research focuses more on the general screening of TORCH in women of childbearing age, and the medical information from children hospitalized due to congenital TORCH infections has not been described in detail. This study summarized and analyzed the epidemiological characteristics, clinical manifestations, length of stay (LOS), and disease burden of hospitalized children diagnosed with congenital toxoplasmosis, congenital rubella syndrome (CRS), congenital cytomegalovirus infection, and congenital herpes simplex virus infection in 27 children’s hospitals in China from December, 2015 to December, 2020 based on the FUTang Update medical Records (FUTURE). A total of 173 patients were hospitalized for congenital TORCH infections. The hospitalization rate due to congenital TORCH infection was extremely low (17.56 per 100,000 neonates), showing that China’s congenital TORCH infection prevention and control policies remain effective. Hospitalization due to congenital toxoplasmosis was the least common, with only five cases reported (2.89%). The economic burden of CRS was heavy, and infants are recommended be vaccinated against RV in a timely manner. Congenital CMV infections accounted for the largest proportion of cases, suggesting that the disease burden of congenital CMV infection cannot be ignored, and the prevention of congenital CMV infection during pregnancy is still an important issue that needs to pay attention. The hospitalization expense of congenital HSV infection was relatively low, while the disease burden increases significantly when patients develop complications. These data illustrate the importance of improving screening for congenital TORCH infections in the early diagnosis and treatment of neonatal patients. A complete understanding of the epidemiology and disease burden of congenital TORCH infections is essential for reducing the incidence of adverse pregnancy outcomes.