In endemic countries many dengue cases are managed on an ambulatory basis throughout their illness. Many of these ambulatory cases will be infectious to Ae. aegypti mosquitoes for some period of the febrile phase. A survey of two key actors, physicians who manage dengue cases and the primary caregiver to dengue cases, was performed to assess their knowledge, attitudes and practices on the mechanism of DENV transmission and prevention. In addition, the duration of protection from mosquito landing was measured and compared between febrile dengue patients and healthy volunteers using a locally available, and widely-used 13% N,N-Diethyl-3-methylbenzamide (DEET)-based topical insect repellent. This KAP survey demonstrated an incomplete understanding of DENV transmission among several patients and physicians, leading to some inappropriate attitudes and inadequate preventive practices in the household. This suggests that aspects of the knowledge, communication between physicians and patients about dengue, and what patients have retained from the clinical consultation, can be improved. The use of topical insect repellent to protect patients and relatives from mosquito bites was recommended by a large proportion of physicians. However, the repellent used in this experiment provided only a modest repellent effect to Ae. aegypti mosquitoes, with no difference in protection time when applied to either dengue patients or healthy controls. Future recommendations to patients should continue to promote repellent use, but advocate much more frequent application. To directly target those patients at risk of onward DENV transmission, this research highlights the potential benefits of physicians imparting practicable and effective advice on preventive measures of dengue case management, as part of a holistic approach to dengue control. Finally, findings of this work can provide data for approaching effectively preventive practices for DENV and other flaviviruses transmitted by Aedes spp.