Post Kala-azar Dermal Leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a dermal condition that occurs in East Africa and South Asia, the latter in 5–10% of patients after apparent cure from Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL). Till date, conventional knowledge in South Asia was that the polymorphic form of PKDL comprising of macules, papules and nodules was the predominant disease form, constituting 85–90%. However, since 2014, implementation of active-case surveillance led to unearthing of a large number of macular, hypopigmented cases, and was reported to contribute to nearly 50% of the disease burden. In particular, the macular form poses a diagnostic dilemma as microscopically parasites are difficult to identify in their lesions, and repigmentation occurs months after parasite clearance, emphasizing the need for developing non-invasive approaches for measurement of parasite burden. Till date, no formal clinical trial for treatment of PKDL has been undertaken where the parasite load was quantified and treatment remains empirical. This is primarily due to PKDL cases being unwilling to provide a repeat skin biopsy once their lesions have declined. Therefore, in cases where treatment failure occurs, it cannot be precisely identified, and could potentially lead to these cases becoming mobile disease reservoirs, thereby adversely impacting on the ongoing VL elimination programme. This study addressed this critical lacuna, where it was established that in both clinical types of PKDL, circulating levels of IgG3 and IL-10 can be considered as effective markers for monitoring treatment outcome. At disease presentation, the raised levels of IgG subclasses and associated cytokines (IL-10 and IL-6) declined following therapy with Miltefosine, the maximum decrease being with IgG3 along with IL-10; importantly, this decrease was sustained for at least six months. In contrast, LAmB failed to decrease the levels of immunoglobulins and associated cytokines even six months after completion of treatment; in fact the antibody levels either increased or remained unchanged. Taken together, this study has established the potential of IgG3 and IL10 as a non-invasive alternative for monitoring of chemotherapeutic responses in PKDL.