Mozambique faces an ongoing risk of cholera outbreaks, due to factors such as poor sanitation and limited access to clean and potable water. To address this challenge, the Mozambique Cholera Prevention and Surveillance (MOCA) project was launched in one of the high-risk areas, Cuamba District, Niassa Province, in 2018. This initiative was an integral part of Mozambique’s efforts to develop a comprehensive National Cholera Plan, aiming to bolster cholera and diarrheal disease surveillance and inform national prevention strategies. Under the MOCA project, we conducted a preemptive oral cholera vaccine (OCV) mass vaccination campaign in 2018 and implemented a healthcare facility-based surveillance for cholera and diarrheal diseases in six healthcare facilities in Cuamba District. A systematic cholera surveillance system was put in place in the study sentinel sites with standardised patient screening, enrolment, and diagnostic procedures. The first basic microbiology laboratory in Niassa province was established in Cuamba District in 2018 with funding and technical support made available under this MOCA project. A significant portion of patients in our surveillance system exhibited diarrheal symptoms unrelated to cholera, with a notable representation of females and individuals aged 15 years and older during the surveillance period in 2019–2020. No suspected cholera patients enrolled was laboratory-confirmed with Vibrio cholerae, which may be highly related to the cholera vaccination campaign performed in 2018 and the local populations’ tendency on the use of drugs before seeking healthcare at the HCFs. Continued surveillance is recommended to track cholera endemicity and outbreaks and also to assess the long-term impact of OCV vaccination in Cuamba District. Better infrastructure and practice of WaSH is needed to reduce the high incidence of diarrheal illnesses in the local populations. Sustainable technical and financial support is needed in the rural remote areas of Cuamba District for the continued systematic cholera and infectious disease surveillance system, including laboratory confirmation. Integrating these efforts with preventive measures is crucial for effective cholera control in Mozambique.