About 1.4 billion people are believed to be living in areas where Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is actively transmitted. However, the distribution of this disfiguring mosquito-borne parasitic disease and the true population at risk that can be targeted for treatment have not been defined for all endemic countries. By 2013, Ethiopia had not delineated the majority of the endemic implementation units that can be targeted for MDA. Here, we present the results of a nationwide mapping exercise conducted in 2013 to determine the number of people that should be targeted for treatment in 2016 when nationwide treatment coverage is expected. We adopted a two-stage cluster purposive sampling method for the integrated mapping of LF and podoconiosis in seven regional states and two city administrations. Using a WHO mapping strategy for LF, based on sampling 100 individuals per community ICT positive individuals (ICT+) and two purposely selected communities per district, we examined 130 166 people in 1315 communities in 658 districts. Only 140 people were found to be positive for LF antigen in 89 different communities. According to WHO guidelines, 75 of the 658 districts surveyed in the 9 regions were found to be LF endemic. Including the 37 endemic Woredas identified enprior to this study, 112 woredas across the country are known to be endemic for the disease with 11 580 010 people exposed to infection. However 6 190 482 of those resided in woredas where our survey results were borderline with only one ICT positive individual identified. We have demonstrated that the number of people living in areas of active LF transmission is at least 60% lower than current WHO estimates of 30 million. We also showed that integrated mapping of multiple NTDs is feasible and cost effective. However, the sensitivity of the diagnostic test used for LF is less than 100% and the identification of a single ICT positive adult may not provide evidence of disease transmission. Based on these limitations, and in addition to the restricted geographical representation of just two sites within a woreda, we recommend conducting research in the 45 woredas with borderline results (one ICT+) to shrink the denominator even further.