Neurocysticercosis, a parasitic neglected tropical disease caused by the larva of Taenia solium poses a substantial public health problem in low-income countries where it strongly overlaps with epilepsy. Mozambique is no exception. A recent pilot epidemiological study in the Mocuba district, Zambézia Province, central Mozambique, reported a seroprevalence of human cysticercosis of 10.3%. Despite those results and significant efforts to diagnosis and control neurocysticercosis, which relies on a combination of neuroimaging and serological tools, that are hardly available for most of people in low-income countries, the prevalence of cysticercosis and neurocysticercosis and its association with neurological conditions, such as seizures and chronic headaches, so far has not been investigated in large-scale studies in Mozambique.
In this community-based and clinic-based study that included 6932 people, we sought to determine the prevalence of cysticercosis and neurocysticercosis, as well as its possible association with seizure activity and chronic headaches in the Mocuba district, Zambézia province. Our study revealed that the prevalence of seizure activity and chronic headaches in the community-based study was 6.5% and 46.2% respectively, and that the cysticercosis seroprevalence was 9.6%. Seizures and chronic headaches were significantly associated with cysticercosis seropositivity (p < 0.05). The clinic-based study, that included 233 individuals from the community-based arm of the study, revealed that 9 (3.9%) of study participants had neurocysticercosis and of those one screened negative for cysticercosis on serology and negative for seizure activity.
We hope that our findings will provide valuable insights for key stakeholders and policymakers to take appropriate actions to be able to effectively diagnose and manage clinical cases of epileptic seizures/epilepsy, chronic headache and T. solium cysticercosis/neurocysticercosis and to develop/adjust public health measures for control and elimination of the respective diseases cause by T. solium.