Schistosomiasis remains a serious global public health problem. Detecting parasite eggs in patient stool samples using the KK method is the standard diagnostic recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for infection by S. mansoni. As a result of intensive control strategies, many previously high-endemic areas are now considered low-endemic areas and the KK method does not function well in low-endemic areas and therefore cannot be considered the gold standard. Thus, a new emphasis on strategies to accurately diagnose low-intensity infections was outlined in a plan from the WHO focusing on elimination of disease as a public health problem. Successful diagnoses and treatment of infected individuals may result in eradication of low-burden transmitters and consequently contribute to interruption of disease transmission. In this regard, immunological techniques have proven to be more sensitive and promising for identifying low-intensity infections where KK may be negative. The identification of antigens is the initial step for developing new immunodiagnostic assays. In this study, we used sets of pooled human sera samples from controls with acute and chronic infections to identify new target antigens via proteomic screening. Using these approaches, we initially identified 12 different egg proteins in S. mansoni-infected individuals (acute and chronic phase). A single antigen, identified as MEA, was shown to be highly specific as this antigen was not recognized by sera from negative patients or patients infected with other STH. The recombinant MEA protein functioned in an ELISA as a highly sensitive and specific antigen to detect patient IgG-antibodies. Recombinant MEA performed significantly better to detect low-intensity infections (1 egg per gram of feces) than the KK method using 2 slides. Therefore, we were able to use a proteomic screening approach to identify a potential new candidate antigen for development of far more sensitive diagnostic assays. Further diagnostic assays employing the MEA could be useful tools on their own or in combination with other methods for diagnosis of schistosome infection in populations living in extreme low-intensity endemic areas of Brazil.