Echinococcosis remains a critical but neglected zoonotic parasitic disease transmitted between canines and livestock or wild rodents. Dogs play a key role in Echinococcus granulosus sensu lato (s.l.) and E. multilocularis transmission, dual infection also occurs in dogs in co-endemic regions in China. The initial egg-production phase occurs over a span of 34–58 days (E. granulosus) or 28–35 days (E. multilocularis) following infection. The free-living eggs, voided with faeces of the definitive host, can withstand extreme weather conditions and remain viable for 240 days (E. granulosus) or 41 months (E. multilocularis) in the environment. Removal or reduction of the worm biomass in dogs will have the greatest and fastest effect in terms of reducing active transmission. In China, although significant efforts have been expended to achieve monthly manual deworming, the actual frequency and coverage thereof remain low; therefore, Echinococcus spp. is still highly prevalent among dogs. Moreover, echinococcosis transmission is still rampant, as the heavy disease burden suggests. We propose a novel, smart, Internet of Things (IoT)-based deworming tool that can deliver PZQ baits to dogs regularly and automatically. It could increase the deworming frequency and coverage significantly, reduce the risk of infection by down to 0.182–0.355 times, and prevent canine infections by removing the worm biomass in dogs rapidly. This deworming collar could also potentially prevent the transmission of echinococcosis from dogs to humans and livestock completely. It may be an excellent alternative to existing manual deworming methods, and the difficulties associated with performing deworming in remote areas with scarce resources can be overcome. Since the discovery of PZQ as the most effective antiworm drug, few breakthroughs have been achieved in terms of novel tools and technologies for the control of echinococcosis. Over the last 50 years, echinococcosis control measures have lagged to keep up with the World Health Organization (WHO) roadmap for the elimination of the disease owing to the practical difficulties in remote areas with scarce resources as well as the lack of promotion of new technologies. We expect the proposed smart deworming collar to herald the development of more innovative technologies for controlling echinococcosis by accelerating the elimination of the disease.