This study was possible thanks to extensive collaborations in each country. In Ghana, the authors would like to first extend our gratitude to our collaborators at the University of Health and Allied Sciences (Ho, Volta Region, Ghana), Bismarck Dinko, Gideon Kye-Duodu, Frank Nyonator, Fred Binka, and John Tampuori. We are extremely grateful to the staff of the Ghana Health Service, especially Badu Sarkodie, and the Disease Surveillance Officers who collected specimens and data on cholera cases. We thank Kweku Quansah from the Environmental Health and Sanitation Directorate for assistance with the study in Accra. We also thank Lawrence Henry Ofosu-Appiah and Lorreta Antwi from the National Public Health Reference Laboratory in Accra for technical assistance preparing and shipping the V. cholerae isolates. We also thank Ashon Ato, James Addo, Bernard Bright Davies-Teye, John Eleeza, Jonas Amanu, Rosemary Gbadzida, Joseph Kwami Degley, and Atsu Seake-Kwawu for assistance and discussions. We are also thankful to Anthony Karikari from Water Research Institute, Achimota for advice and discussions. We are very thankful to the UNICEF Accra office for their support: Samuel Amoako-Mensah, Kassim Yakubu Al-hassan, David Duncan, and Daniel Yayemain. In Togo, we thank Stanislas Tamekloe for assistance with the epidemiological data. We are also thankful to Kossivi Agbelenko Afanvi, Balanhewa Aguem-Massina, Amidou Sani, and Kwoami Dovi (MoH) for assistance in the field and discussions. We extend thanks to the UNICEF office in Lomé, Isselmou Boukhary, Fataou Salami, Tagba Assih, and Magali Romedenne. In Benin, the authors would like to extend gratitude to Gregoire Adadja, Nadine Agossa, and Adjakidje Senami Aurel (MoH) for assistance with the epidemiological data. We also thank Honore Bankole, Francois Hounsou, and Agnes Hounwanou from the Bacteriology Laboratory, Cotonou for discussion regarding the confirmation of patient V. cholerae isolates. We thank the staff at the UNICEF office in Cotonou: Mamadou Mouctar Baldé, Isabelle Sévédé-Bardem, Adama Ouedraogo, and Wilfried Houeto. In Ivory Coast, we would extend our gratitude to Bisimwa Ruhana Mirindi for organizing our field mission and important discussions. The researchers would like to thank Lindsey Osei (Aix-Marseille University) for assisting with establishment of the mission protocol. We thank Hélène Thefenne and Jean-Jacques Depina (L’Hopital d'Instruction des Armées Laveran, Marseille) for support with the V. cholerae isolates. The authors thank Lindsay Osei for helping to establish the protocol and initial collaborations with our colleagues in Ghana. We thank Dustin Robertson for assistance writing the manuscript. The authors thank Anne-Cécile Normand for assistance with the MLVA. Concerning the missions in Guinea and Sierra Leone, the authors thank all staff who took part in patient care, field investigations, data reporting as well as sample collection, transport, processing, and analysis. In particular, the authors are indebted to Sakoba Keita, Amara Jambai, and Leonard Heyerdahl (AMP, France). We are also grateful to H Diallo (INSP, Guinea) for performing initial vibrio cultures and the Aix-Marseille University staff who sequenced and analyzed the V. cholerae clone from Guinea. Finally, we are extremely grateful to all the families, village chiefs, fishermen, drivers, water vendors, and many others who took the time to explain to us their experience with cholera.