Leprosy is caused by a bacterium and is curable with a combination of antibiotics
                    known as multi-drug therapy that patients take for six or 12 months. However a
                    significant proportion of leprosy patients experience inflammation in their skin
                    and/or nerves, which may occur even after successful completion of multi-drug
                    therapy. These episodes of inflammation are called leprosy Type 1 reactions.
                    Type 1 reactions are an important complication of leprosy because they may
                    result in nerve damage that leads to disability and deformity. Type 1 reactions
                    require treatment with immunosuppressive agents such as corticosteroids. The
                    optimum dose and duration of corticosteroid therapy remains unclear. We
                    conducted a study to see if it would be safe to use a large dose of a
                    corticosteroid called methylprednisolone for three days at the start of a 16
                    week corticosteroid treatment regime of prednisolone in patients with leprosy
                    Type 1 reactions and leprosy patients with nerve damage present for less than
                    six months. We did this by comparing individuals who were given
                    methylprednisolone followed by prednisolone and those who received just
                    prednisolone. In this small study we did not see any significant difference in
                    the frequency of adverse events due to corticosteroid treatment in the two
                    groups. We did not demonstrate a significant difference in improvement in
                    individuals in the methylprednisolone group (who received a larger dose of
                    corticosteroids) than those in the prednisolone treated group. Overall
                    approximately 50% of individuals required more prednisolone in addition
                    to the 16 week course of treatment to prevent further nerve damage or reactions.
                    This suggests that it would be worthwhile investigating longer treatment courses
                    with corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive drugs.