Rabies remains one of the deadliest zoonoses known to humanity since antiquity, resulting in tens of thousands of human deaths each year, mostly in African and Asian countries. Mass dog vaccination, enhanced surveillance, improved access to Pre-exposure prophylaxis(PrE) and (Post-exposure prophylaxis(PEP) to at-risk groups, enforcement of responsible dog ownership and public education are keystones to rabies prevention and control. Since the first reported case in Nigeria during 1912, rabies has continued to take its toll on human and animal lives. However, gross underreporting due to a frail health care infrastructure, deficient reporting systems, and misdiagnosis with neurological diseases further complicated by socio-cultural practices have resulted in a lack of empirical data to support rabies prioritization, per the global target of 2030. We used the standard PRISMA guidelines to select Nigerian rabies studies between 1978 and 2020. Rabies risk, coupled with welfare concerns identified in this study, demonstrates the need for continued advocacy towards legislation prohibiting the dog trade in Nigeria and elsewhere. The high-risk community groups identified in this review (i.e., children, butchers, and adult males) need to be educated on response to dog bite exposure to reduce the impact of this invariable fatal but preventable disease. Moreover, there is a need for mandatory dog vaccination and implementation of a national rabies program to attain the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended vaccination coverage of at least 70%. We unravel the need to establish rabies diagnostic centres in the country’s six geopolitical zones. Local inclusion of dog bite occurrence by Disease Surveillance and Notification Officers (DSNOs), with related community surveillance tools, can help in rabies/dog surveillance. In addition, there is a need for investment into pathogen discovery by enhancing laboratory-based surveillance for wildlife rabies, understanding its potential role in Nigeria and the need for quantitative research to understand the various risk factors for disease perpetuation.