Consistent with the revised WHO Global Goals, China has set the target of complete interruption of transmission (elimination) of zoonotic Schistosoma japonicum by 2030 at the entire country level. Much remains to be known, however, regarding the complex multi-host disease dynamics of schistosomiasis. Multi-disciplinary disease control programs within China, including mass treatment with praziquantel for over 40 years, have successfully targeted human and bovine definitive hosts, significantly reducing infection prevalence to extremely low levels. However, S. japonicum has at least 40 species of potential definitive host reservoirs. Most notably, and perhaps most challenging in terms of targeted control, high prevalence of S. japonicum has been detected in rodent wildlife within recent years, particularly in hilly and mountainous regions of China. Molecular/phylogenetic studies have revealed matched S. japonicum genotypes indicative of shared transmission between rodents and humans. Similarly, mathematical models, incorporating parasitological and molecular data, have indicated that rodents may be sufficient to maintain ongoing transmission of schistosomiasis within some Chinese regions, most notably that of hilly and mountainous habitats. In order to help elucidate further the potential association between prevalence of S. japonicum in humans with rodent wildlife across China, and to assess whether this balance may be changing following the introduction of mass drug administration with praziquantel to humans (and bovines) in the 1980s, we performed a meta-analyses aimed to estimate the overall prevalence of S. japonicum infections in commensal species rodents in China over this period. Published studies on S. japonicum infections in wild rodents in China since 1980 were searched for across five electronic bibliographic databases, together with lists of cited articles. We identified a total of 37 relevant articles involving 61 studies with eligible data on 8795 rodents. The pooled prevalence level was 3.86% (95% CI: 2.16–5.93%). No significant change in overall pooled prevalence levels within rodents was observed between 1980–2003 and 2004-current, despite the integrated control strategies performed across China within the latter period. However, whilst the prevalence estimates did decrease within marshland and lake regions since 2004, in the hilly and mountainous regions, in contrast, there was a significant increase in the rodent infection prevalence. The estimate increased from the smallest 0.58% in spring to the highest 22.39% in winter. It also increased with the density of rodents. Therefore, we suggest that future systematic monitoring of schistosome infection levels within potential wildlife reservoirs, particularly within hilly and mountainous regions within China and/or areas aiming for verification of interruption of transmission, should be incorporated in order to reliably evaluate impact, risk and ultimately help ensure the sustainability of elimination interventions across, regional, national and international scales.