Chagas disease continues to be a neglected disease in Mexico and Latin-American. Although an estimated 96% of Trypanosoma cruzi transmission to humans occurs via 32 triatomine vector species, the only transmission prevention in Mexico has been sparse and based on heterogeneous blood donation screening. Despite mandating serological screening of blood donations or donors for T. cruzi since 1990 in most Latin American countries, Mexico only finally included mandatory serological screening nationwide in official Norms in 2012. In 2005, a survey of blood donor centers in Mexico was conducted to compare T. cruzi prevalence in donations with that of Mexican migrants in the US. Since there was little coincidence between data from that survey and official screening or confirmed case rates, and screening for the social security system only initiated in 2010, the objective of this study was to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for total compliance of current guidelines from both Mexican primary healthcare (the Secretary of Health) and regular salaried worker health services (the Mexican Institute for Social Security). A bi-modular model to analyze compliance was developed using a decision tree for the most common documented screening algorithms for the two principal health institution, and a Markov transition model for the natural history of illness and care. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio based on life-years gained is US$ 383 for the Secretary of Health (MoH), while the cost for an additional life-year gained is US$ 463 for the Social Security Institute (IMSS). Using survey compliance data for MoH, and that published by IMSS, failure to detect current infections, to avoid new infections, and life-years lost were calculated for 2013 and 2014 for both institutions. The MoH has failed to confirm 15,162 T. cruzi infections, did not prevent 2,347 avoidable infections, and lost 333,483 life-years over the two year period. Full regulatory compliance should be mandatory and timely monitoring should be part of the health authority’s responsibilities for the sake of blood security in Mexico.