Rabies is a preventable disease–but is still responsible for approximately 70,000 human deaths worldwide each year. The majority of human deaths occur in Asia and Africa where there is a lack of diagnostic resources and expertise, making it difficult to develop effective prevention and control strategies. In recent years, several real-time RT-PCR based diagnostic assays have been introduced to many developing countries in an effort to control the H1N1 pandemic flu, Ebola outbreak, and other tropical viral infections. In an effort to further improve rabies diagnostics, we developed a pan-lyssavirus Taqman real-time RT-PCR assay called LN34 for the detection of all known RABV variants and other lyssavirus species. The LN34 assay uses a combination of degenerate nucleotides, multiplex primers and probes, and unique probe modifications to achieve superior sensitivity and specificity compared to previously published RT-PCR based rabies diagnostics. Equally important, the LN34 assay is simple to set up, high throughput, combines multiple standard controls and can be used directly in widely available real-time RT-PCR systems. The LN34 assay was validated using a broad and comprehensive panel of highly diverse RABV variants and other lyssaviruses. A validated universal rabies diagnostic assay will be important in regions where RABV and other lyssaviruses co-circulate and for establishing a widely accepted diagnostic protocol. Over 200 clinical samples (including ante-mortem, post-mortem, and field derived samples) were tested with the LN34 assay, and the assay achieved 100% diagnostic sensitivity and specificity in our laboratory. Over 300 published genome sequences from representatives of RABV and other lyssaviruses were found to contain the conserved LN34 primer and probe targeting sites in an in silico analysis. We are expanding the validation of the LN34 assay to multiple domestic and international laboratories and expect the LN34 assay will drastically improve rabies diagnostic capacities globally.