We thank the residents of Iquitos, Peru, for allowing us to undertake this study in and around their homes. We greatly appreciate support of the Loreto Regional Health Department, including Drs. Carlos Calampa, Jorge Reyes, Ruben Naupay, Carlos Vidal, Hugo Rodriguez, and Martin Casapia, who all facilitated our work in Iquitos. Karla Block supervised the phlebotomy team and provided logistical support for the project. We thank Renan Ricarte Ruiz Chavez for processing blood samples and keeping the phlebotomy team happy and Leslye Angulo for tracking down student participants. Serological Surveys were carried out by Joel Cahuachi Tuesta, Jacqueline Cardenas Perez, Junnelhy Mireya Flores Lopez, Juan Flores Michi, Marcelina Flores Michi, Elga Lopez Guerrero, Xiomara Mafaldo Garcia, Nora Marin Moreno, Maria Juana Martinez Salas, Orfelinda Morales Tejada, Geraldine Ocmin Galan, Zenith Maria Pezo Villacorta, Zoila Martha Reategui Chota, Luis Riveros Lopez, Rubiela Nerza Rubio Briceno, Rosana Magaly Soltero Jimenez, Zenith Tamani Guerrero, Moises Tanchiva Tuanama, Sarita Del Pilar Tuesta Davila. Angelica Espinoza, Roxana Caceda, and Roger Castio for carrying out the serological testing, Carolina Guevara for supervision of the NMRCD virology laboratory, and Juan Perez for data management. Dr. Truman Sharp, Ms. Lucy Rubio, and Ms. Roxana Lescano of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Center in Lima, Peru, were instrumental in facilitating these studies. We also thank Brett Forshey, William K. Reisen, and David Smith for their comments on earlier drafts.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, nor the U.S. Government. Copyright Statement. TJK, KR, JGO, PJB, CR are military service members or employees of the U.S. Government. This work was prepared as part of their official duties. Title 17 U.S.C. §105 provides that “Copyright protection under this title is not available for any work of the United States Government.” Title 17 U.S.C. §101 defines a U.S. Government work as a work prepared by a military service member or employee of the U.S. Government as part of that person's official duties.