This study outlines the array of mosquitoes that bite humans at night on the island of Sumba, Indonesia, with data on behavioural traits that impact when and where disease transmission may occur. Biweekly human landing catches (HLCs) were performed in four selected houses in 12 clusters (villages) from sunset to sunrise over a three years period (May 2015 to April 2018). The collection and analysis of 73,507 mosquito specimens revealed the presence of various species of Anopheles, Aedes, Culex, Armigeres and Mansonia, that potentially transmit several diseases including malaria, filaria, dengue and other mosquito borne viral diseases. Even though these data represent only night-time collections, this represents a comprehensive geographic description and inventory of species, bionomics and temporal distribution of mosquitoes on the island of Sumba. Data demonstrate that the high diversity of species with associated diversity in behaviours results in mosquito-human contact occurring throughout the night and both indoors and outdoors–relevant to both disease transmission and intervention applicability. Vector specific behaviours are specifically relevant to intervention strategies for specific diseases. The use of molecular methods to determine and validate morphological identification of specimens resulted in the characterization of multiple novel sequences–indicating the presence of undescribed species, members of cryptic species complexes or species without molecular data. Species identification using molecular methods are essential towards determine vector species compositions–especially in areas where data is absent. Though the correlation between temperature, rainfall and HBR was not statistically significant, the presence of mosquito populations throughout the year allow for perennial transmission of mosquito-borne diseases. Overall, these findings represent baseline and novel data for Sumba and may be utilized to develop disease and vector-specific or integrated strategies that mitigate the transmission of mosquito borne diseases in Indonesia.