Tick-borne zoonoses caused by pathogens in the Order Rickettsiales and Legionellales are significant causes of morbidity and mortality in many parts of the world. In recent times, incidences of zoonotic diseases have increased due to the changing climate, cross-border movement of tick-infested animals as well as advancement in molecular techniques that have aided their rapid identification. Tick-borne zoonoses infect and multiply in most organs of ticks, particularly the salivary glands, thus enabling pathogen transmission to a variety of hosts among them mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians mostly through the bite of an infected tick. These tick-borne zoonoses are therefore geographically localized and occur mostly in foci with optimal conditions for the vectors thus posing a public health concern. Like in many regions across the world, tick-borne zoonoses; caused by pathogens in the Order Rickettsiales and Legionellales, have not received the level of public attention that has been paid to other maladies in Iran. As a result, their presence and actual magnitude is still under-reported in the country; necessitating this systematic review. Sixty three publications were reviewed after the initial evaluation of 1,205 articles. Most of the 63 publications reported on coxiellosis in Iran followed by anaplasmosis, ehrlichiosis and SFG rickettsiae in that order. Pathogens causing these diseases and their antibodies were collectively detected in domestic animals (sheep, cattle, goats, camels and dogs), animal products (milk and eggs), arthropods (ticks) and human beings in 22 of the 31 provinces in Iran. People in close contact with domestic animals and animal products like farmers, veterinarians, slaughterhouse workers, laboratory personnel and health care workers are at higher risk of infection. Findings emanating from this review suggest that tickborne zoonoses caused by pathogens in the Order Rickettsiales and Legionellales could be prevalent in parts of Iran though the studies are insufficient to give the general epidemiology of the zoonoses in Iran. Besides, the existing studies only covered a limited number of organisms at small spatial scales thus excluding a large portion of the country and a whole range of other potential reservoirs such as horses, pigs, cats, donkeys and wildlife thus creating gaps in knowledge that need to be filled.