In Tanzania, schistosomiasis is a vast public health problem treated through mass drug administration (MDA) campaigns that target large groups of the population. Such mass drug administration (MDA) campaigns require significant amounts of resources challenging the capacity of chronically underfunded schistosomiasis control programs to sustain annually. The way in which MDA campaigns have been conducted, by targeting whole districts believed to be endemic, have not had optimal results for reducing disease transmission, have facilitated problems of under-treating in many population groups while over-treating other non-endemic areas, and have placed a significant strain on the limited resources available.
To circumvent such problems, the World Health Organization (WHO) has recommended that treatment efforts need to be more targeted to endemic communities and administrative areas within districts, and that MDA campaigns should be conducted at a sub-district level. The WHO also provides explicit guidelines for treatments of communities based on parasitological prevalence of schistosomiasis. While there is sound rationale in making this switch, most schistosomiasis endemic countries including Tanzania do not have adequate surveillance data to make such informed decisions at this level. Limited data on schistosomiasis prevalence inhibits disease control programs from making data informed decision on where to treat, as well as adhering to WHO recommendations for conducting targeted treatment at the sub-district level.
Geostatistical models are spatial analysis tools that have been used in the past to help predict the likelihood of disease prevalence in nearby areas where there is limited data. They are particularly helpful in predicting diseases like schistosomiasis that have strong associations with environmental and socio-demographic elements that we do have data on across much of the world. Publications on the use geostatistical models to predict schistosomiasis prevalence in different settings date back more than 20 years, but have not yet been integrated to aid the decision process of national programs, nor have they been specifically advocated for by the WHO. The study seeks to examine the implications of using model predictions to guide targeted, sub-district level treatment, in terms of populations requiring treatments when compared with conventional district level approaches.
This publication demonstrates that use of geostatistical models for predicting schistosomiasis is possible and can be a valuable tool to inform where to treat. It furthermore estimates that the populations eligible for targeted treatment are considerably different than the populations who would be receiving treatment under conventional district level treatment approached, placing emphasis on the importance of switching to targeted treatment. The paper argues that uptake of geostatistical models can enable targeted planning below the district level, a major step to facilitate a systematic change that the WHO believes will drive down transmission of the disease, the importance of which cannot be understated in an area that is so historically burdened by the disease and its associated health complications.