Leprosy, a neglected disease, remains endemic in some developing countries despite the existence of a successful program to treat and cure patients. While has been a drastic decrease in the number of patients, but we still have a stable number of new cases that is still very high in countries like India and Brazil in which more than 30.000 new cases were observed in 2014. Over the past ten years, Brazil has changed the strategies regarding of public health so that leprosy diagnostic, treatment and surveillance functions would predominantly be performed in primary care health units. The decentralization of leprosy diagnosis and treatment was expected to impact early cases detection and contribute to decrease in the number of cases with nerve damage. We analyzed and compared the demand of patient referrals to the Fiocruz Outpatient Clinic, a reference center for the diagnosis and treatment of leprosy in Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil, prior and subsequent to the implementation of the decentralization strategy. Our results indicated that the profile of patients treated at the Fiocruz Clinic changed after the diagnosis and treatment of leprosy was integrated into the primary health services. There was an increase in the proportion of patients with other skin diseases. At the same time, 40% of the patients with leprosy had a higher disability grade at diagnosis, indicating late diagnosis. The initial presentation of leprosy may be a discrete skin or neural lesion, representing a challenge even for trained dermatologists. These results are probably the consequence of difficulties encountered in diagnosing leprosy in the primary health units without specialized health professionals or adequate laboratory tests. Although decentralization strategies have several advantages integrating the diagnosis of leprosy into basic health care units, the support of referral centers in diagnosing complex cases, managing difficult reactional episodes, and treating of side effects is central to the control of the epidemic.