Leprosy in Colombia is considered in a post-elimination stage, as prevalence of the disease is less than 1/10000 since 1997. However, leprosy transmission is still common with 400 to 500 new cases reported each year—70% of them multibacillary (MB) and 10% with grade 2 disability, demonstrating late diagnosis. HHCs of leprosy patients are a population at risk for infection by M. leprae and the subsequent development of leprosy. However, the M. leprae incubation period is long, and measures to follow-up with this population are difficult and not included in leprosy control programs in Colombia. We performed this survey with the aim to evaluate leprosy transmission in family groups of leprosy patients from four Colombian departments: Antioquia, Bolívar, Córdoba and Sucre. Volunteers (n = 713), 170 (24%) leprosy patients and 543 (76%) HHCs belonging to 159 family groups (FG) were included after informed consent was given. Of these volunteers, 225 (31.5%) were monitored two times: 45 leprosy patients and 180 HHCs. Volunteers were given a clinical examination and epidemiological data was recorded. Skin biopsies, nasal swabs and slit skin samples from patients were taken for bacillary index determination and Mycobacterium leprae genotyping. Nasal swabs and slit skin samples from HHCs were tested by nested PCR. Additionally, serum samples were tested for IgM anti-phenolic glycolipid-I (PGL-I) titers. Twenty-two (4.1%) of the 543 HHCs had IgM anti-PGL-I positive antibody titers, indicating infection. PCR of DNA isolated from nasal swabs was positive for M. leprae in 18 (16%) HHCs, suggesting the presence of carriers. Two new leprosy cases were detected among the HHCs. We found three leprosy cases in one family group, two of them multibacillary. The M. leprae genotype of these two strains agreed at 9 markers, showing these individuals are infected by the same M. leprae strain, indicative of familiar transmission. Our results confirm that leprosy transmission is active in a country where leprosy is in post-elimination stage.