The prevalence of leprosy in the world and in Brazil is unknown. Although Brazil has effective disease notification systems, the data do not capture reality in the field, due to decreasing leprosy awareness, both in the community and among health professionals. Schools have decreased or stopped teaching about the disease, likely as a result of a massive campaign to eliminate leprosy as a public health problem around the world that focused almost exclusively on dermatological manifestations. The disease is primarily neural, affects mainly the reproductive-age population, and can generate disabilities leading to serious economic impacts on the individual and society. Despite modern diagnostic approaches, diagnosis of leprosy is still focused on clinical observation, given the scarcity of laboratory tests with good performance in terms of sensitivity and specificity. This makes leprosy diagnosis a challenge, especially for mild forms; Mycobacterium leprae can grow slowly and interact variably with the host, making leprosy as a highly complex disease. Only when the leprosy care policy in Jardinópolis municipality, São Paulo state inner, Brazil, was changed to hire a leprosy specialist for surveillance, was it possible to modify leprosy indicators revealing the hidden epidemic in the municipality. This study confirms hidden endemic leprosy in the municipality and informs implementation strategies for primary health teams using the Leprosy Suspicion Questionnaire (LSQ) on symptoms and signs of leprosy. LSQ is a low-cost, highly effective instrument to promote leprosy health education among community health agents and other health team workers, and among communities about the neurological symptoms that precede dermatological leprosy signs. This technique increases the likelihood of early diagnosis and treatment, avoiding disabilities, and consequently effectively halting disease transmission. The LSQ is an effective, low-cost screening tool for detecting new leprosy cases and increasing awareness of leprosy. The LSQ alerts community members and health professionals to detect even mild symptoms/signs of leprosy, a primarily neurological disease. Our data also demonstrate the importance of the leprosy specialist role to train and to supervise health teams to investigate incidence in communities that have long been established as nonendemic. The assumption of nonendemicity can and should change, due to the increase in the number of cases initially, and in view of the chronicity of leprosy and slow future decline. This change will in fact facilitate the much-desired elimination of leprosy as a global public health problem.